Hello and welcome to elephant English podcast.
In today's video we're going to be looking at 10 idioms and expressions related to transport.
In the same boat which means in the same difficult situation We should all protest against the cost of living crisis Rock the boat which means to cause trouble or an unpleasant situation
Don't mention that topic in front of her.
We don't want to rock the boat.
Driver the wall.
Which means to annoy someone.
He always leaves the toilet seat up.
It drives me up the wall.
Hit the road.
Which means to begin a journey.
Hit the road.
If we leave now, we should get there.
6pm.
My way or the highway, which means to accept the way I want it or leave.
This is my proposal, it's my way or the highway.
Sail through, which means to do something easily without any difficulties.
I thought the exam was going to be difficult, but I sailed through it.
Cross that bridge when you come to it, which means to deal with something when it actually becomes a problem and not now when it's not really a problem.
I will have to find a new place to live in two years' time, but I'll cross that bridge when I come to it.
Come upon the bandwagon, which means to join an activity that has become very popular.
For example, when bean vegan became popular, shops quickly jumped on the bandwagon and started bringing out more vegan products.
That train has left the station, which means that that opportunity has already passed.
You can't ask to get back together after three months.
That train has left the station.
Hello, today we are going to see ten happiness idioms and expressions.
On cloud nine, which means extremely happy.
For example, he was on cloud nine when he found out that he had passed his university exams.
Have a...
whale of a time, which means to have a great time or a lot of fun.
For example, I went on holiday to France with my friends from university and we had a whale of a time.
On top of the world, which means to feel very happy.
For example, I feel...
on top of the world.
I have a new job and my salary has almost doubled.
Over the moon, which also means very happy.
For example, her mom was over the moon when she announced that she was pregnant.
In 7th Heaven.
which also means very happy.
For example, they have been touring the world for three months and they've been in seven heaven since.
Buzzling, which means very excited.
For example, he asked me if I wanted to be his best man at...
his wedding and I was buzzing.
Happy as Larry which means extremely happy.
For example, I gave the baby a toy and he played with it for an hour as happy as Larry.
Be thrilled to bits which means to be extremely pleased.
For example, I can a surprise birthday party for my friend and she was thrilled to bits.
Get a kick out of something, which means to enjoy something.
For example, people get a kick out of playing video games and could play them all the time.
day.
And finally make someone's day which means to make someone happy.
For example my work colleague said that I looked great in my new dress and it made my day.
If you have enjoyed this video please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.
I'll see you in the next video.
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be looking at 10 time idioms and expressions for English learners.
In the nick of time, which means only just in time.
An example would be, I finished my project in the nick of time.
I sent it at 2350.
only four minutes before the deadline.
All the time in the world, which means there is a lot of time to do something.
An example would be, don't rush, we've got all the time in the world.
Time after time, which means a lot of times.
repeatedly.
An example would be, I make the same mistake time after time, I never learn.
Take your time, which means to do something without rushing.
An example would be, I'm taking my time with this painting.
I want it to be perfect.
No time to lose, which means there is not a lot of time to do something, so it's important to do it quickly.
An example would be, come on, there's no time to lose.
Times up, which means there is no more time to do something.
An example would be, time...
up please hand in your exams now.
There's plenty of time which means there is a lot of time to do something.
An example would be don't rush there's plenty of time.
Turn back time which means go back to a time in the past.
An example would be if you could turn back
time, would you have done anything different?
It's about time, which means to say that something should have happened before.
An example would be, she has finally started to work.
Well, it's about time.
It's about time, which means when something happens...
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be looking at 100 opposite words in English.
I'm going to be testing you on six of these words at the end of this video so make sure you pay attention.
ill, compulsory, voluntary, rural, urban, hot, cold, right, wrong, approximate, exact, closed, open, tight, loose.
tired, energetic, flexible, rigid, cheap, expensive, thick, thin, old, new, interesting, boring, soft, hard, normal,
tremolo, strange, tiny, huge, total, partial, empty, full, clean, dirty, elegant, scruffy, curly, straight, beautiful,
Ugly, ancient, modern, young, old, big, small, Clever, stupid, deep, shallow, true, balls, safe, dangerous.
warm cool bad good excellent terrible guilty innocent harmful beneficial weak strong mil
Wheeling reluctant dark light clear ambiguous scarves Plentyful wet dry graceful awkward confident shy rich
poor, heavy, light, hard working, lazy, same, insane.
So let's test yourself now.
What is the opposite word of noisy?
It is quiet.
What is the opposite word of open?
It is closed.
What is the opposite word of warm?
It is cool.
Then now let's go to some more difficult ones.
What is the opposite word of approximate?
Exactly.
What is the opposite word of rigid?
Flexible.
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be looking at 15 money idioms and expressions for English learners.
Money is no object, which means not being worried about the price of things because you have a lot of money.
An example would be she has bought two Gucci bags in the last week.
Money is no object for her.
To chip in, which means to contribute money when many people are paying for something together.
An example would be everyone chipped in five pounds to get her a wedding present.
A bargain, which means good value for money.
An example would be, I got this coat of fifteen pounds, it was a bargain.
To make a living, which means to earn the money that someone needs to live, an example would be it's hard to make a living off YouTube.
To make ends meet, which means to have enough money to live and to pay the bills.
An example would be it is hard to make ends meet when you are paying £700 a month on rent.
To make ends meet, which means to have enough money to pay the bills.
Value for money, which means it is worth a money.
An example would be it cost 25 pounds when usually it costs 60 pounds.
It was great value for money.
To make good money, which means to earn an income that allows you to live a comfortable life.
An example would be top models make good money.
To go on a shopping spree, which means to go shopping and buy a lot of things, an example would be, she goes on a shopping spree twice a year and spends thousands of pounds.
To make a loss, which means to lose money, an example would be, the company made a loss this year due to the pandemic.
A tight budget, which means as...
amount of money that you have available to spend.
For example, I have been on a tight budget since I lost my job.
A ripoff, which means when you are overcharged for something.
For example, the bus driver charged me £12 instead of £7 but I didn't realise what a ripoff.
Top of the range, which means of the highest quality or the most expensive product.
An example would be if you want to save money, don't buy top of the range products.
Buy the cheaper ones.
Money doesn't grow on trees, which means money is work for, is limited and is not given away free.
An example would be, could you give me 20 pounds?
that?
No, money doesn't grow on trees.
I gave you £10 last week.
Rags to riches, which means to go from being poor to being rich.
An example would be a lot of people feel inspired when they hear his Rags to Rich's story.
To be broke, which means to have no money.
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be learning 15 love idioms and expressions for English learners.
To chat someone up, which means to have a flirtatious conversation with someone.
An example would be, here's at the bar chatting her up.
get back together, which means to start a romantic relationship with someone again.
An example would be Sarah and Thomas have got back together.
A match made in heaven, which means two people who are perfect for each other.
An example would be they make such a good couple.
They're a match made in heaven.
To go steady with someone, which means to have a more committed and serious relationship with someone.
An example would be, James wants to go steady with Laura but she wants to date other people.
To fancy someone, which means to be attracted to someone.
An example would be my mum fancies George Clooney.
She thinks that he is hot.
To go pear-shaped, which means when something goes wrong, an example would be it all went pear-shaped when she discovered that he was dating other women.
To split up or to part ways.
which means to finish a relationship.
An example would be, I'm afraid to tell you that Katie and I have decided to split up or to part ways.
Made for each other, which means two people that are perfect for each other.
An example would be, look at them, they look great together.
they are made for each other.
To fall head over heels, which means to fall in love.
An example would be Emma fell head over heels in love with Jake.
To be crazy about someone, which means to like or love someone very much.
An example would be I can't stop thinking of her.
him.
I'm crazy about him.
To go out with or to date, which means to spend time with someone who you're interested in romantically.
An example would be she's going out with or she's dating my friend William.
Did you know?
To hit on someone, which means to...
flirt with someone.
An example would be, I don't know if she was hitting on me or if she was just being friendly.
To be an item, which means to be in a romantic relationship.
An example would be, I didn't know that they were an item.
How long have they been dating?
to kiss and make up, which means to become friendly again after a fight or a disagreement.
An example would be, we sometimes argue but we always kiss and make up on the same day.
To cheat on someone, which means to be unfaithful to your partner.
An example would be, they aren't dating anymore because she cheated on him within a moment.
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcasts.
In today's video we're going to be looking at 15 work idioms and expressions.
Cut corners, which means to do something an easier or faster way.
An example would be cutting corners can't be risky if you aren't careful enough.
Call it a day, which means...
to stop working on something and finish.
An example would be it was 1655 and there was no more work left to do so we called it a day.
Think outside the box which means think about original ideas with a different perspective.
An example would be our boss asked us to think outside.
the box to provide a solution to the problem.
Raise the bar which means do raise expectations.
An example would be the new boss has new strategies to raise the bar on our performance at work.
Back to square one which means go back to the start
An example would be the project was lost so now we are back to square one.
24-7 which means 24 hours per day and 7 days per week.
An example would be it feels like I'm working 24-7.
So basically all the time.
A dead end job which means
job when you don't have any chance of receiving promotions or improving in any way.
An example would be, if you want to stay motivated, it is important not to get a dead end job.
Have a lot on your plate, which means to have a lot of things to do.
An example would be, I think it's a good idea to interrupt her.
She has a lot on her plate.
Go the extra mile, which means make an extra effort.
An example would be, I really love her work ethic.
She always goes the extra mile to help her colleagues.
Get the boot, which means to be fired or to be dismissed.
An example would be, he wasn't productive at...
work, so he got the boot and now he's looking for a job.
Cut to the chase, which means to get to the important part and not waste any time.
An example would be I have a lot of news tell you today but I'm going to cut to the chase.
Be on a roll, which means the lucky or...
successful for a period of time.
An example would be, I'm on a roll, so many good things have happened to me at work this month.
Bend over backwards, which means make an extra effort to help.
An example would be, I bent over backwards for my colleagues in my previous job, but now I'm focusing more on myself.
I'm on a roll, so I'm focusing more on myself.
I'm focusing more on myself.
I'm focusing more on myself.
Get the sack, which means to be fired or dismissed.
An example would be she thought that she was going to be in the company for many years, but she got the sack.
And finally, up in the air, which means not settled and unresolved.
An example would be we don't know when the meeting will be.
It's all up in the air.
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be looking at 25 difficult words to pronounce for some English learners and we're going to be seeing one example with each of the words.
Thought.
I thought that I knew the answer.
February.
My favourite month of the year is February.
comfortable.
This sofa is really comfortable.
Autumn.
The first day of autumn is in September.
Chocolate.
I love to eat chocolate.
Average.
The average age of my students is 15.
Lichuta.
Lichuta is a mirror.
of our society.
Culture.
I love learning about other cultures.
Throughout.
We will give you more information throughout the day.
Asia.
I have never been to Asia.
Although, although I have a cat, I prefer dogs.
Mountain.
The man finds the highest mountain on the island.
Author.
Who is the author of your favourite book?
Courage.
The athlete is a great example of courage and strength.
Bird.
I don't like the idea of having a pet bird.
Blood.
I need to have a blood test at the doctors.
Anxiety, I have a lot of anxiety in my exam seasons.
Hierarchy, there are hierarchies in the animal kingdom.
Maintenance, poor maintenance of the building caused the fire.
visit London every year.
Europe.
Where do you live in Europe?
Busy.
The city was very busy last night.
Audio.
I need to change my audio settings.
Building.
This building was built in 1930.
Consequence.
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be looking at 25 difficult words to pronounce in English for English learners.
Architecture.
The architecture in Barcelona was amazing.
Toph.
This question is Toph.
It isn't easy to answer.
Shed.
I have a fixed schedule at work.
Mortgage, I will pay off my mortgage in 20 years.
Awkward, the situation was awkward and I didn't know what to say.
Squirrel, there was a squirrel climbing up the tree.
The audience laughed when the comedian told a joke.
Covered, there is not enough space in my kitchen covered.
Scissors, I need some scissors to cut this piece of paper.
Home, you are my favorite person in the whole world.
Fion say, I would like to introduce you to my Fion say, David.
Pleasant.
They are a pleasant couple and we enjoy spending time with them.
Recipe.
I am following a recipe to make this dish.
Entrepreneur.
He is...
an entrepreneur that has great ideas.
Coincidence.
It is a coincidence that we were both at the supermarket at the same time.
Island.
I would like to live on an island with nice beaches.
Ballet.
I used to do ballet when I...
with a child.
I'll.
The bread is on the same aisle as the cakes.
Weird.
Is it weird that I like being alone?
Wardrobe.
I need a bigger wardrobe for all my clothes.
Egg yolk.
We will need.
two egg yolks for this recipe.
Receipt.
You need to show the receipt to return the product.
Numonia.
She is in hospital because she has pneumonia.
Almond.
Have you ever tried almond milk?
Florescent.
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be looking at 25 difficult words to pronounce in English for English learners.
Knowledge, his knowledge of science was excellent.
Vegetable, I don't like a lot of vegetables.
Where are all?
I would love...
to live in a rural area.
Temperature.
The temperature of the sea is 17 degrees Celsius.
Psychiatry.
She is studying psychiatry.
War.
Have you heard the latest news about the war?
them.
This rhythm reminds me of a song that I like.
Stomach ache, I've got a really bad stomach ache.
Manoeuvre, the driving test examiner will ask you to perform several maneuvers.
You could get her some jewelry for her...
birthday.
Heidi, personal hygiene is very important.
Cemetery.
The cemetery is next to the church.
Author.
The author of this book is quite famous.
Encourage.
I encouraged her.
to continue studying.
Poor dogs have four paws.
Tongue.
Tungles are used to taste food.
Women.
There are more women in this class than men.
Minutes.
I have been waiting for twenty minutes.
minutes.
Quiet!
The choir was singing in the church.
Ocean.
He loves swimming in the ocean.
Particularly.
The gift wasn't particularly special or personal.
Seat.
The police.
the thief and arrested him.
5.
This dress covers my thighs so it isn't very short.
Ireland.
Have you ever visited Ireland?
Lettuce.
I added some lettuce to the salad.
If you have liked this video,
B was were being.
I want to be a doctor in the future.
I was hungry so I ate a sandwich.
They were hungry so they ate a sandwich.
I have never been happier.
Become became become to become a teacher you need to study education.
popular when he started at his new school.
Has she become famous yet?
Begin, Begin, Begin.
We should begin now because it is getting late.
I began my university degree in 2018.
Has she already begun the course?
Bring...
Go went gone.
I love to go to the beach during the holidays.
I went home at about 10 p.m. She has already gone to work.
How had had?
I have a lot of friends at school.
He had an important meeting at work yesterday.
He slowly passed off so he would walk on public streets or shopping with staff so he would take peace their work when his friends have stopped by that day and they would respond quietly to leave.
You had any pets before?
Here, heard, heard.
I can't hear you.
I heard the news on the radio.
They have heard that you're getting married.
Keep kept kept.
I'm going to keep this forever.
They kept their important documents in a folder.
pet her favourite photos since she was a child.
No, new, known.
I don't know who you are.
I knew that you were coming to visit me yesterday.
How long have you known him?
Len, Len, Len.
Can you lend me your pen please?
She lent me her car for a day.
I have...
I've lent cars in this company before.
Leave, left, left.
I want to leave as soon as possible.
I left you a message but you didn't reply.
She has left her dog at home because they aren't allowed here.
Let, let, let.
I let my children use their tablets one hour a day.
Let me.
your bike last weekend.
My mum has let me meet my friends tomorrow.
Lose, lost, lost.
I don't like to lose at board games.
I lost my phone at the festival.
The team has lost a lot of matches recently.
Make, made, made.
I normally make...
course in the evening.
They made new friends at their new school.
Have you ever made a big mistake?
Meet Met Met.
I would like to meet you.
She met her partner at university.
Have you ever met a celebrity?
Pay paid paid.
I usually pay by car.
not with cash.
She paid for everyone's dinner as a gift.
Have you ever paid too much for a product?
Put, put, put.
Could you put this on the table please?
We put a Christmas tree in the corner.
Have you ever put some music on really loud at home?
Read, read.
red.
I love to read poetry.
In the summer I read a fantastic novel.
Have you ever read pride and prejudice?
Run, ran, run.
I can run very fast.
He ran to the bus stop to catch the bus.
Tom isn't here.
He has run to the shop to get a drink.
Say, said, said, I can say goodbye in French.
She said to me that she was going on holiday.
Have you said anything to him?
See, saw, see.
I can't see anything without my glasses.
I saw a really nice car yesterday.
Have you seen the new shop in all town?
Sell, sold, sold.
They sell clothes and accessories.
He sold his car on a website.
You have sold your old computer.
Send, sent, sent.
Can you send me a message later?
She sent me a birthday card.
Have you sent any Christmas cards yet?
Brought, brought.
Remember to bring your books to class.
Last year I brought a present to your birthday party.
We have all brought some food for the picnic.
Buy, bought, bought.
I need to buy a laptop because my old one is broken.
You bought the item with cash.
Sing, sang, sung.
You can sing very well.
The crowd sang along to the band's new song.
I have never sung in public.
Sit, sat, sat.
I like to sit in the front seat of the car.
She sat next to her boyfriend on the plane.
Have you ever sat at the emergency exit on a plane?
Sleep, slept, slept.
I always sleep nine hours a day.
The baby slept in the car on the journey.
Have you ever slept in an apple?
Speak, spoke, spoken.
I don't speak German.
She spoke to me in perfect English.
Have you ever spoken to him?
Stand, stood.
Don't stand up when the bus is moving.
She stood up because she couldn't see the white board.
I have always stood at concerts.
Swim, swam, swam.
I don't know how to swim.
They swam in the sea yesterday.
I have never swam in an Olympics swimming pool.
I don't know how to swim.
Take, took, taken.
I need to take my medicine in the morning.
Somebody took my pencil and now I can't find it.
Have you ever taken your dog on holiday with you?
Teach, taught, taught.
I love to teach English.
My math teacher taught me for three years.
Have you ever taught someone how to speak your...
language.
Tell, told, told.
I need to tell you some important news.
She told me a big secret.
Have they told you that they are getting married?
Think, thought, thought.
I think that this is the best option.
I thought that you had moved to another country.
Have you ever thought, thought?
about volunteering.
Understand, understood, understood.
I don't understand the question.
She understood them speaking English.
I have never understood people who are impatient.
Where?
War, warm.
I don't like to wear high heeled shoes.
I wore a beautiful dress to the event.
I have bought a lot of clothes this year.
Choose, chose, chosen.
I have to choose a nice dress for the special event.
She chose the best option.
Have you chosen the course that you want to study?
Come, came, come.
Please come to my party on Friday.
He came to visit me yesterday.
Has anyone come to see your new house?
Do did done.
I normally do my homework at 6pm.
We did a lot of things on our holiday.
Have you done the washing up?
Drink, drunk, drunk.
I always drink.
liter of water per day.
Yesterday I drank some wine.
Have you ever drunk vodka?
Drive, drove, driven.
I drive to work every day.
Last week I drove 500 kilometres to visit my family.
She has never driven a car before.
Eat, ate.
I like to eat my main meal at 5pm.
Yesterday I ate sushi.
Have you ever eaten octopus?
Fall fell fallen.
I usually fall when I run quickly.
She fell down the stairs yesterday.
She has never fallen in love.
Feel?
Felt, felt.
I don't feel well.
She felt sad when she heard the news.
He had never felt so much love for someone.
Find, found, found.
I need to find a new job.
He found his mobile phone in his bag.
Have you ever found any money in the strait?
Fly, flu, flown.
We fly on the 28th of August.
The parrot flew around the zoo.
She has never flown an aeroplane.
Forget, forgot, forgotten.
Don't forget to do your homework.
She forgot to come to the party.
Have you ever forgotten your phone at home?
Get, got, got.
Can you go and get my phone please?
I got an A star in my exam.
He has never got a bad mark in an exam.
Give, gaze, given.
Give me a call when you're ready.
He gave me a hug when we said goodbye.
He has given me two gifts this year.
A lot of people love watching movies.
In fact, people in England watch around 172 films per year.
Committees, thrillers, dramas and action movies are the most popular genres in England.
Star Wars The Force Awakens Skyfall
and no time to die, which are both James Bond films, are the most successful films of all time in England.
There are many film genres, action, comedy, drama, horror, romance, western, science fiction, historical, musical, etc.
Normally, when you watch cable TV, there are a lot of adverts.
Sometimes, they last 10 minutes, which is a lot of time for people to lose.
I don't normally stream a lot of movies.
I prefer watching series.
I think that it takes a long time.
to find a movie to watch, especially on a streaming platform, because there are so many options.
When you start watching a series, it is a lot quicker to watch something because you already know what you are going to watch.
Now we are going to go.
with the questions.
I would like you to answer these questions in the comment section and I will correct your answers.
I'm going to answer these questions and there aren't going to be any subtitles so it's going to be a little bit more difficult.
The first
question is what film genres are your favourite?
I think that romance and comedy are my favourite genres because they are films that are easy to watch and they are difficult to follow because when I watch a suspense or an action...
film.
Sometimes it's difficult to understand what is happening if you're not paying 100% attention.
So I like to watch comedies or even romantic comedies which are a mix of romance and comedy.
When it is a Friday evening
you don't want to have to concentrate a lot on the film, so that is why I like these genres.
The second question is, which film genres don't you like?
So like I said, I don't really like action films because they are all quite similar.
There are always car chases, guns, fighting and I don't like violence.
So they are repetitive and also very violent.
Those are the two reasons why I don't like action films.
Especially ones with Tom Cruise.
When you watch a Tom Cruise film, they all seem...
The third question is, do you pay for a streaming service like an Netflix, HBO or Amazon Prime video?
Yes, I pay for a streaming service because I don't like to watch Advert.
I think that it is better to pay £10 per month.
and choose what you want to watch because if you turn on the TV in England, there aren't a lot of good programs or movies or series on TV.
And finally, which is your favorite movie?
My favorite movie is...
called Walk to Remember.
It is a romantic comedy.
At the start it's a little bit sad, but there is a happy ending and that is what I like in a film.
I don't like it when the ending is sad.
So make sure that you write your answers to the questions.
etc.
Action films have a lot of fighting, car chases, explosions and shooting.
These films are normally violent.
Comedy films are funny and make the audience laugh.
There are a lot of jokes in live movies.
films are scary.
These movies try to scare the audience.
There are not only zombies, monsters, demons and other scary creatures in these films.
Romance films tell a love story between two characters and focuses on their romantic...
feelings.
Science fiction movies have a plot which means a story or a storyline that is fictional and they are related to science.
They are normally about the future of human beings or the planet.
And amazing future technologies.
appear in them.
Historical movies are about events that happened in the past.
The historical events that appear in these films can be real or can be fictional.
Most times they are based on reality.
Western movies have cowboys.
course riding and gun fights.
The events happen in the American West.
Finally, in musicals, the characters sing songs to tell the story of the movie.
There is normally a lot of singing and dancing in these films.
Now it.
most people watch movies and series on streaming platforms like Netflix, HBO or Amazon Prime.
Streaming is very comfortable because you can watch any movie or series whenever you want to and wherever you want to.
You can watch it on your phone.
tablet or computer.
You can be in the car on a plane or in the street.
You don't need to be at home to watch something.
And the only things that you need are an internet connection and electronic device to watch it on and a subscription to one of these platforms.
Streaming is quick, cheap and easy, so this is why a lot of people like it more than cable TV.
What do you prefer streaming services or cable TV?
So when you watch a movie or a series on a streaming platform, there aren't any adverts.
In today's video we are going to follow some speaking exam questions about learning English.
I'm going to read these questions and answer them.
Obviously I'm English so I can't really answer a lot of the questions.
So I'm going to pretend that I'm not English.
So that you can use the answers as exam.
or your speaking exam.
The first question is, why are you studying English?
I am studying English because it is the language of international business.
I use English at work and I know that if I become fluent in the language, it will help me advance in my career.
me.
But when I'm outside the classroom and I'm talking to people at work in English, I don't like making mistakes because I'm afraid that they will correct me or that they won't understand me.
The next one is what do you think of English?
grammar and spelling.
I think that English grammar is easier than spelling because the grammar normally follows some rules but the spelling doesn't.
There are a lot of words that are very difficult to spell and they don't.
any rule.
Even English people get a lot of words wrong.
The most common mistake that I see that English people make is the difference between there as in they are there as in something that belongs to them like their phone or their
house and there as in over there.
The next one is how important is English for you in your job or future.
English is very important in my job because we have to communicate with people from other countries and the language that we use to.
do so is English.
This is the reason why I started to study English.
Regarding my future in general, not only at work, learning English is important for me personally because I think that English is something.
that I have always had difficulties with.
And if I learned to speak English fluently, then it would be a great achievement for me.
I was never good at English at school, so I would be very proud of myself if I can achieve a high level.
The next question is, what adjectives describe your feelings about English?
The first adjective that I would use to describe English is difficult because I spend a lot of time studying English and it is still quite difficult for me.
especially the phrasal verbs and expressions.
But I could also use the word rewarding to describe learning English because when I have learned something new or I noticed that I have improved, then it is very rewarding.
And I feel proud.
myself.
The next question is what is your best piece of advice to study English?
My best piece of advice to study English is to be consistent.
That means that you need to practice it every week or every day if you can.
But you can't just study it for...
one week and then stop studying for two months.
You have to be consistent.
To be consistent it is important that you find an activity that you like doing in English.
That could be watching series in English or reading a forum in English.
Something that you enjoy.
because if you don't enjoy it, you'll always associate English with a textbook or something boring and that won't keep you motivated so it would be more difficult to stay consistent.
The next question is, what is your favourite word in English and why?
My favourite word in English is phenomenon.
I like it because it sounds funny, but it is quite difficult to pronounce.
The next question is, what is more important?
Speaking, reading, writing or listening?
I suppose that this depends.
on what you need English for.
If you only need English at work to read documents, then reading is the most important.
But in general, I would say that speaking and listening are the most important.
If you need English to travel or to just talk on a phone.
at work.
The next one is, do you worry about making mistakes in English?
Yes, the truth is that I do worry about making mistakes in English, but my teacher always says that it's important to make mistakes because then my teacher can correct.
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be discussing some British stereotypes and we're going to be talking about whether we think that they are true or not.
The first one is British people love talking about the weather.
Do you think that's true?
Yes, I definitely think that's true.
Because the weather in...
England and Britain is very changeable.
You can often get four seasons in one week and so we discuss the weather a lot with friends, family and even with strangers.
Yeah I think when you're sat at a bus stop for example people normally bring up the weather.
You can always comment on the weather and it's not something that you have to have in.
The next one is British food is terrible.
I don't think you agree on this one.
No, I don't agree with this one.
I don't think that any food is terrible.
I think that typical British food is fish and chips roast in there.
When people think of British food, people automatically think of fish and chips.
But I wonder how many British people, British families actually have fish and chips.
Yeah, it's the same with a full English breakfast.
People think that English people have a full English breakfast every day, but that's not true, is it?
No, I can't remember the last time that I had a full English breakfast.
I think it's very hard to prepare.
bacon, eggs, sausages, fried bread and hash browns every morning before you go to work.
So people tend to have it on a Sunday when they wake up late at 11 o'clock, don't they?
It's not something that they have every day.
It's something special.
I don't know that many people would even have it at home.
I think that most people would have fully...
breakfast when they went on holiday or when they went out to eat cafe or restaurant.
Yeah, because it's not easy to make, is it?
And it takes a lot of time and you don't really want to spend that much time preparing your breakfast when you haven't had anything to eat that morning.
Yes, I think most people would have it as a brunch, really.
And what is your favourite British food?
I think that the cakes are the best, aren't they?
I like a traditional roast dinner which is roast chicken or roast beef or roast lamb with potatoes and maybe five or six other vegetables like broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, potatoes, carrots and that's the normal thing that you would have if you go out for lunch at 2.
clock on a Sunday isn't it?
I think also that most households would make it on a Sunday at home too.
Whereas the fish and chips and the traditional English breakfast would be out, you would have out at a cafe.
A Sunday roast is what everyone can make and they have it at home.
Can you think of other British foods?
I can think of pies.
There are different types of pies, you can have a steak pie, chicken and mushroom pie, meat's beef pie and one that's popular is steak and ale pie, which is steak with beer in the pie.
Then there's shepherd's pie, which is very popular, that's with meat, minced meat and potato on the top instead of a pastry top.
I think those are the most typical.
common to have a conversation with someone and it's a conversation starter, isn't it?
Yes, because everybody is experiencing the same weather and often at a supermarket checkout, the person working in will comment about the weather just to be friendly.
It's small talk, isn't it?
Yes, it is.
The next one is it rains all the time in Britain.
Do you think that's true?
I don't think it's necessarily true, but somebody visiting Britain for a week or two weeks might be unfortunate enough that it does rain for all of their stay, so they would get the impression that it rains all the time.
I think the problem is that it is quite unpredictable, so when you look at the weather on an app, it says that it's going to rain all day.
But in reality it doesn't, it might rain one hour in the morning, one hour in the afternoon.
But the problem is that you can't plan what you're going to do that day because it changes very quickly.
Yes, because on the app it shows rain all day.
But for example this morning it showed that it was going to rain all morning, but we went out for a very nice walk.
And it was very light rain that wasn't the problem.
But it could...
stop you from planning to go out to the park or for picnic, for example.
The next one is British people love to drink tea.
What do you think?
Yes, I think this is definitely true.
Although there is a fashion now for drinking different types of coffee and going out to drink coffee.
So I think maybe it's something that the older generation enjoy more than the younger generation.
I think that in general a lot of young people have coffee in the morning and then during the day they have a cup of tea But a cup of coffee is a lot stronger than tea.
So if they need the energy in the morning they would have a cup of coffee The next one is British people are obsessed with the royal family.
What do you think?
We don't know that all people are obsessed with the royal family
And often it's a case where the media are obsessed with the real family and they push it onto us on Facebook and on my newspapers.
I think that a lot of people don't really care.
I think that it doesn't really affect people's day to day lives and they're not as interested as what the media say.
Yes, I think that's true.
Often there would be a post on Facebook about the Royal Family and there are a lot more negative comments than supportive comments.
And the newspapers normally exaggerate what the population thinks.
Yes, that's true and also I think that maybe now that we have a king instead of the queen then opinions are changing as well.
The next one is...
British people love queuing.
I don't think that they love queuing.
I think that it's a traditional part of British lives.
I think it's respect as well, isn't it?
Yes, it is.
It is.
We've been brought up that you wait in line, you wait in a queue for your turn and it's just that other cultures don't queue as much as the British folk
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be having a conversation with my dad about music.
So I'm going to ask you questions and he's going to be answering.
The first question is what type of music do you like?
I like to listen to rather in general all kinds of music, rock, rock, rock.
I don't like jazz.
I don't like heavy metal.
Who is your favourite singer or who is your favourite band?
I haven't got a favourite single band as I listen to a wide range of music.
I have no one particular artist or group here.
But at the moment I'm going through my CD collection and I've been listening to music from the 1970s and 1980s which is what...
I sort of hear from music.
Can you play a musical instrument?
It's something that I've always wanted to be able to do, so my answer is no.
But I would have loved to learn how to play the guitar.
Did you used to learn how to play music at school?
I only opportunity to learn to play a musical instrument at school was...
So I can actually play one single tune on the hook.
What song?
It's called Three Blind Monks.
Okay.
The next question is, what is the most popular type of music in your country?
So in England?
Well, I think at the moment it's mainly rap music, which appears to be a lot of radio.
I think the charts are full of...
Rap music, aren't they?
They have been, yeah, and it's one of the reasons why I tend not to listen, because in my opinion a lot of it sounds the same.
Okay, and have you ever been to a concert or a festival?
I've never been to a festival, and I've only been to two or three concerts.
Which concerts have you been to?
Well, for what I can remember, because it's a long time ago.
I went to see Shawadiwadi, which is a rock and roll group, which must have been in 1976.
I've seen the famous group The Drifters, and I also went to see the brother and the man what Eurovision for Great Britain.
That was in 1978.
And the final question is
Do you prefer to listen to CDs or records?
I do have a big CD collection, so I do like to listen to CDs.
I know there are options now where you can watch videos on YouTube, and listen to music, or Spotify, but I still prefer CDs.
Why do you prefer CDs and not Spotify?
Because if you've got a CD, you can immediately see...
what songs are on it and you can play the CD, you know, what is coming out, which is what I like.
It's predictable, then reinforces my enjoyment of it.
Yeah, I think it's all in order and there's no adverts because sometimes when you're listening to music on YouTube or Spotify, you type in to listen to a particular singer or band and then an hour later it...
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be talking about London.
My mum is here and I'm going to be asking her some questions about her last trip to London, which was six months ago.
What do you like about visiting London?
I love London because it's a vibrant city.
It's got a lot of culture and you can always
something to do, you could find paid activities and a lot of free activities to.
What is your favourite part of London to visit?
My favourite part to visit is Covent Garden because I used to go there quite a lot when I was a teenager and it brings back good memories.
It can be very lively and exciting and then other times it can be very quiet.
£25 each.
So if there are four adults then it's a lot of money.
Yes, the London eyes are very busy attraction.
And where would you recommend staying?
Would you recommend staying in the centre of the city or on the outskirts and catch a buff in?
I would recommend staying just on the outskirts where you've got easy access to a bus or a train or a...
Yeah, the last time I stayed in London, I caught a bus into the centre which left me a big bend, so at houses of Parliament and it only cost £1.70, so it worked out a lot cheaper than staying in the centre of London, which would have cost about £50 more per minute.
We normally stay between you.
station and Kings Cross station then you can easily walk into the centre of London but also in evening you can get the underground back to your hotel.
When I went it was summer so I couldn't book that hotel because it was very very expensive that's why I stayed on the outskirts.
Yeah is it again it's worth planning your trip quite a long time in advance just to keep an eye on You were going to be able to get a drive in Becca.
locations.
And have you visited any of the museums in London?
Yes, we've been to the National History Museum which is very, very big and it can take a day to look around all the floors and on our last trip we went in the National Gallery which is just near Trafalgar Square and we really enjoyed that and that was the first time we'd ever been there.
So I've been going to...
London for many years but there are still plenty of new places to visit.
For example you haven't been to the British Museum or is it the tape museum?
I have been to the tape museum when I was about 18 I used to regularly go to London and it was one of my favorite places to go and walk around on my own and it's good because they're free.
However last summer
when I visited London, I found that as it is free, a lot of people go to the museum, even though they're not interested in looking around.
They just went there to sit down and it was quite stressful really because there was a lot of people everywhere.
Yes, especially with this bad weather, then people were headed to the museums.
But you wouldn't want to have to pay to go in.
or museum, so it's a choice of make.
And what do you think about going to Madame Two Swords?
I know that it's very popular with foreign tourists.
I went many years ago, and it was very good.
But again, I think it's very expensive for a big family to go to.
And what do you think about going to a Western show, like a musical?
Because that can be expensive as well, but is it worth it?
I think it is rude.
worth it.
If you can afford to buy tickets to see a West End show, you might have to pre-book a month or two months in advance, but there are also some tickets for sale on the day.
If the theatre has cancellations, then they're available about an hour before the performance, I think.
What shows have you seen you under?
Years ago I saw Hello Dolly.
I've seen...
Oh, I've seen cats a number of times and I've seen footloos and one of the best shows I've seen was a Michael Jackson tribute show.
I've been being to see that twice.
And what's the transport like in London?
Well, because the roads are very busy in London, we normally walk a lot because it's the quickest way to travel.
One time we bought a ticket for a
us, hop on hop hop us and we found that we were sat still in traffic most of the time.
So you wouldn't recommend the tour bus?
No I wouldn't because it can take a long time to get to places in traffic.
Yeah we were hoping to see the changing of the guard and we didn't get there in time because we were just sat in traffic.
So the underground is very good and the normal bus is the regular bus is a good to do.
Bye too You
depends what time here you go or what time you're there.
Sometimes there's live music and performers in the street, aren't they?
Yes and my cousin's son is a street performer and he does juggling now at the Covey Garden but there's also buskers and it all creates a nice environmental tourist and for people who live in London.
What are some free...
recommend taking a bus to go to Camden Market for example because I walked there and it was a very very long way and the day after we were very tired but I think for example if you want to go to Notting Hill then you can walk through Hyde Park so depending on where you're going to go on that day you should take public transport more or less.
things that you can do in London.
If you're travelling on a budget, you can go to the parks, there are many parks in London, you can go and visit all the sites of London, like Buckingham Palace, Tower of London and other famous monuments in London.
You don't have to go inside them to appreciate them.
Yeah, I think it's quite a nice wall.
walk from houses apartment, so big bend, cross the river to the London Eye and then walk all along South Bank and you can see a lot of things there and that is all free, isn't it?
Yes, we did that walk last time, we were in London and it was the first time that I'd walked on that side of the river because generally people stick to the centre of the city.
or they walk along the embankment, which is quite popular.
Yeah, I liked walking along the south bank because there were a lot of stalls and you could sit on the bench and watch everybody walk by.
And I think it's just a nice environment.
Everybody seems very happy and it feels very safe, doesn't it?
I remember a big city.
I was quite...
prize when I last visited London because compared to other cities it didn't really feel like a busy capital.
I think that maybe the walkway on the south environment is quite new because I had never thought about walking on that side.
So something to consider another time.
I think you've never been to Borough Market though.
you?
Now I haven't been to Burrow Market or Camden Market.
I think I normally stick to the areas of London that I enjoy visiting.
Yeah, it is quite expensive.
So I think the last time I went a hot dog was £8 which was quite expensive.
So we just walked around and then walked further out when we wanted something for lunch.
When we go...
to a big city.
We normally go to a shop or supermarket and by sandwiches and snacks there.
We don't tend to eat out in big cities.
Another place that you can visit for free is the Sky Garden, which you have to book online.
I think you have to book it a week before because when I went it was too late.
I hadn't booked it the week before so I couldn't go up.
there.
I would suggest keeping an eye on the website for about a month before, just to make sure that you can book it.
If you go up very high, I think it's about 32 floors and you can see the view of London and the tents and there's a cafe and restaurant up there too.
So it's a good free option if you don't want to go on the London eye because I think the London eye cost about 30.
In today's video we are going to be talking about bathrooms.
First we are going to explain the difference between bathrooms and toilet.
Toilets include an actual toilet and a wash basin, whereas bathrooms have both of these plus a bath.
In England, standard houses usually have a downstairs toilet, which is usually quite...
small and an upstairs bathroom which is bigger.
That way if you're watching TV in the living room you don't have to go upstairs to go to the toilet.
Some people prefer taking quick shower whereas others like having a long bath.
We use soap or shower gel to clean our skin.
Some people like using spin-inar bullet like the coolingframer is so easy on the old channel, let me becuase
that are different colours.
Some other objects that we might find in a bathroom are some scales, which we use to weigh ourselves, a waste bin to put rubbish in and liquid soap which we use to clean our hands.
If you want to cut your nails you can use nail clippers and if you want to pluck your nails.
eyebrows which means to remove the extra hairs on your eyebrows you can use tweezers.
Some people keep their washing machine in their toilets or bathrooms if they are spacious enough.
If you want to do the laundry you have to take your clothes, bedding or towels from your laundry bag or bathroom.
it and put them in the machine.
You have to add laundry liquid or laundry detergent and some fabric softener to make the clothes smell nice and make them soft.
When the cycle has finished you need to hang it up to dry on a clothesline or an era.
An error is a plastic or metal object designed to hang clothes on to dry.
You can hang them up by using pegs, which will ensure that it won't fall off.
Some people also keep their makeup in the bathroom as well because they apply it after they have had a shower.
keep your makeup in a toilet tree bag which is a little bag that you can often take on holiday as well to keep all of your makeup and personal items all together.
If you like to use creams after having a shower you can apply face cream to your face and body lotion to your body in general.
If you want to clean out your ears, you can use Q-tips, which are little sticks with a piece of cotton wool at each end.
And if you want to take your makeup off, then you can use cotton wool or baby wipes, which we normally use for babies.
We also use shampoo to wash our hair.
Once you have cleaned your hair, you can apply conditioner or a hair mask to make it soft.
If you're having a bath, you can use a bath bomb which smell very nice and make the water turn pink or blue for all different types of colours.
Some bath bombs create a lot of bubbles and if you're having a bath with a lot of bubbles we call it a bubble bath.
When you get out of the shower or the bathtub you have to dry yourself with a towel and dry your feet on the bath mat.
Towers can be folded in a cabinet or hung up on a towel rack.
I love the towel rack.
that are heated because then you don't feel so cold when you get out of the shower.
You can also put on a bathrobe when you get out of the shower so you don't feel so cold.
If you want to dry your hair you can use a hairdryer.
When it's dry you can straighten it with a hair straightener or curl it.
with a hair color.
If you don't like to apply heat to your hair, you can let it air dry.
If you want to brush your teeth, you need a toothbrush, toothpaste, a sink, and a tap.
Some people like electric toothbrushes, which have a three minute timer on them.
After you
have brush your teeth, you can use mouthwash which is an antibacterial liquid that you can use to keep your teeth, guns and mouth clean.
Dentists also recommend you to floss with dental floss.
They are pieces of string that you put between your teeth to clean between the gaps of your
When you go to the toilet you use toilet paper and you have flush activists.
If you want to have a shave you need a razor and some shaving foam.
The shaving foam protects your skin and the razor shaves your hair.
After you have had a shave you can use after shaving.
Which ruddy
is the irritation and bumps called by shaving.
People always shave in front of the mirror to make sure that they haven't missed any spots.
Make sure to clean the basin well after shaving because if not the plug hole might get clogged.
If this happens you can use a plunger which we use to arm.
clog and unblock pipes or clog holes.
If you want to style your hair you can use a brush or a comb.
To tie your hair up into a ponytail, for example, we use a hair tie which are the thin ones or a scrumchy which are the bigger ones and have material.
A grocery store is a place where you go to buy food like fruits, vegetables, meat, dairy products and cereals and products for your house like cleaning products.
I go to a grocery store once or twice a week to buy groceries.
I liked my house the most.
go to big grocery stores because there are more products and they are cheaper.
A clothing store or a clothes shop is a shop where you can buy clothes like shirts, trousers, dresses and accessories like shoes, bags and jewelry.
can teach me how to do the exercises well.
A gift shop is where you can buy gifts for special occasions like birthdays, weddings, graduations or when someone is having a baby.
You can buy cards which you can write.
a nice message in at gift shops.
You can also buy gifts with someone's name or photos on them.
For example, you can buy a t-shirt or a mug with your mom's name on it or with a photo of her pet on it.
A hairdresser or a...
is where you can have your haircut.
I go to the hairdressers every six months, so twice a year, to have my haircut.
Men usually go to a barber's because they can have their hair and their wits cut there.
A furniture store.
or shop is where you can buy furniture for your house like sofas, tables, chairs or beds.
I only go to furniture shops when I move house.
A movie theatre or cinema is where you can watch movies or films on a...
big screen.
When you watch a film at the cinema you normally buy snacks like popcorn or sweets and drinks.
I don't normally go to the cinema because I prefer watching a film at home.
I prefer to watch a film alone on my sofa.
because I can stop and start the film when I want to.
An art gallery is where you can see paintings, sculptures and photography.
I like going to art galleries because I love art, especially painting.
I'm not good at painting but I love seeing other...
artist's work.
A hardware store is where you go to buy things or building or repairing things.
You can buy tools there.
I don't normally go to hardware stores because I don't like building or repairing things in my house.
A spa?
is where you go to relax.
There are cold and hot swimming pools and you can have a massage there.
I love going to spars because they are very relaxing.
I prefer to go in the winter because the swimming pools are very warm even in the winter.
A department store is
a place that sells almost everything.
It sells clothes, furniture, electronics, beauty products, etc.
I like going to department stores because you can buy a lot of things and you don't need to go into different shops.
A florist is a shop that sells flowers.
I love fashion so I often go to clotheshops.
I like to go with my friends because they enjoy shopping too.
A bookstore or a bookshop is where you can buy books, magazines or newspapers.
I love going to bookshop.
because I really like reading.
When I go to a bookshop I always want to buy all of the books but I can't because books are quite expensive.
They normally cost £12.
So it's a lot of money if you buy by books.
or a coffee shop is a place where you can relax and have a cup of coffee tea or a snack.
Cafés often sell sandwiches or cakes but they don't sell big meals.
I like going to cafes with my friends to chat with them.
usually have a cup of tea and a crescent.
A shoe store or a shoe shop is where you can buy different types of shoes like normal shoes, boots, sandals and trainers.
I don't usually go to shoe shops because I normally buy shoes.
online or in normal clothes shops.
A pharmacy or a chemist is where you can buy medication.
I go to the pharmacy when I am ill and I need medication.
A pet store or a pet shop is a shop that sells pets accessories for pets and
food for animals such as dogs, cats, fish and birds.
I go to the pet shop to buy medication and food for my cat.
An electronics store or shop is where you can buy electronic devices bike computers laptops smart
smartphones, TVs, cameras and other gadgets.
I only go to electronic shops when I need to buy something.
The last time I went to one, I bought some headphones to listen to music.
A gym is a place where people go.
to do exercise and work out.
Some people go to fitness classes that have a teacher, but others do exercise alone.
I go to the gym three times per week to do exercise.
I like to go to gym lessons with a teacher because they...
Easter is a Christian festival that is celebrated all over the world.
Easter celebrates the resurrection of Jesus when he came back to life.
In the United Kingdom, Easter has been celebrated for hundreds of years.
There are many Easter celebrations.
and customs.
So today we are going to see how it is celebrated in the United Kingdom.
In the UK there is a four-day bank holiday weekend to celebrate Easter.
The first day of the holiday is Good Friday and the last...
The Easter Sunday, families and friends have a meal together.
The typical dish for Easter Sunday is roast lamb.
Another typical food that people eat are hot cross buns, which are sweet buns that have a cross on the top.
Now let's go with the questions.
your answers in the comment box and I will correct your answers.
The first one is do you celebrate Easter in your country and how do you celebrate it?
For example this is how Easter is celebrated in my country but in reality a lot of people don't really celebrate it.
They go on holiday or they eat Easter eggs, but they don't usually go to church, especially the younger generation.
The second question is, have you ever eaten an Easter egg or an Easter bunny?
If you come to the UK during the Easter.
holidays or a few months before, you will see that the supermarkets are full of easter eggs and easter bunnies and normally there are easter eggs of each different type of chocolate.
So for example if you like twigs or you like Mars then there is an easter egg.
for you.
So depending on your favourite type of chocolate you can buy warm Easter egg or another and normally they cost around 6 or 7 pounds depending on how big they are and if they are a brand.
Then the third question is what religious celebrations?
do you celebrate in your country?
So tell me, are there any religious celebrations that you celebrate that are similar to Easter?
Or, if you celebrate Easter, are there any different celebrations that you do in your country?
Because I know that there are different ways to celebrate it all around the world.
If you're...
day is Easter Monday.
People usually don't have to work so they can spend time with their friends and family or even go on holiday.
The Easter celebrations start the week before on Palm Sunday which is a week before Easter Sunday.
There are special services at churches on Palm Sunday.
If you go to a church on Palm Sunday, they will give you a palm leaf, which people normally keep for a whole year, to the Palm Sunday of the following year.
Good Friday is another.
important day.
It is a day when Jesus died on the cross when he was crucified.
On this day, people remember the suffering of Jesus.
There are some people who do not eat alcohol or meat.
Deciding not to eat is called fasting in English.
Another Easter celebration in the UK is the Easter Egg, which is a symbol of new life and rebirth.
It is typical to give them as a gift during Easter.
You can give them to your friends or your family and especially to children.
You love this season because of the delicious chocolate eggs and bunnies.
Some people also decorate and paint on boiled eggs during Easter and make them beautiful to give them as gifts.
Another important Easter tradition is the Easter Bunny.
It comes from a German custom called the Usterhazam.
It was a hair which is very similar to a riot, that laid eggs.
Like Easter eggs, the Easter Bunny is a symbol of rebirth, as Jesus was reborn.
Also, it is a symbol.
or fertility.
The Easter Bunny leaves chocolate eggs for children to find.
A lot of communities like clubs, families or schools have an Easter egg hunt.
In these egg hunts children have to search for their eggs in a garden, a playground or a...
Park.
Finally, Easter Sunday is the most important day of the Easter celebrations.
It is the day when Jesus Christ resurrected, meaning that He came back to life.
A lot of people go to church services on Easter Sunday.
On...
In today's video we're going to talk about boredom.
Boredom is a feeling that you get when you are bored, which you might feel when you are doing something that you're not interested in, when something is repetitive or monotonous, and because your brain is not being stimulated enough.
The first question is, when do you get bored?
I think I get bored the most when I have to wait for a long time, for example when I'm at the doctors or I'm at an airport.
When you are in one of these big buildings, there is often no signal so you don't have any data, so you can't use your mobile phone to go online and entertain yourself for that period of time.
I was quite interested in learning about...
and I had to read it in my degree and you just can't understand anything.
You have to look up the words and their meanings and then write them down and even so it just becomes so boring, so repetitive and this is why I think it is the most boring piece of literature that I've ever had to read and I wouldn't recommend it.
It is definitely an...
important piece of literature and it is considered the most important one that is written in Old English.
The next question is, do you think that sports are boring?
No, I think that sports are very fun and entertaining and I don't think that I've ever felt bored while doing exercise.
I like going for a run and playing tennis and there is no waiting.
involved.
I think that we normally get bored when we have to wait for something.
Maybe you could get bored if you play a sport like at a competitive level and you go to competitions and you have to wait for your turn to play.
That might be come a bit boring if you have to wait for hours but no generally I don't think those sports are boring.
The next question is, do you think that...
shopping is boring.
Well, I think that it depends what you're shopping for.
For example, I really love going furniture shopping and buy in accessories for my home, but I don't like going to hardware stores because I'm not interested in it.
I go shopping there if I have to buy something specific, but I wouldn't go there just walk around.
I think it's the same...
with clothes shopping.
I wouldn't go to a clothes shop if I'm not looking to buy something.
I wouldn't go just for a wander around and go window shopping.
I do find it a bit boring when you spend hours and hours looking around all of the shops and you can't find what you're looking for.
So that's why I have started to buy things online because it's very easy to...
find the product that you want and you don't waste as much time.
You do have to wait for the product to arrive like you can get it sent to the shop and collect it in the shop or you can get it delivered to your address but I don't think that that type of waiting is boring is more when you're sat around and haven't got anything else to do.
what other things make people bored.
And I found out that school or college is on the top of that list, which is to be expected.
Interestingly, the second and third reasons on that list were the ones that I had just chosen.
Medical facilities and airports.
A bit further down the list, we have Bing at work.
Bing.
in a bank and being in a shop or a store.
I suppose that it depends on the type of shop.
I find some of them really interesting and I think I could spend hours in there but it is true that there are some shops I find really boring especially hardware stores.
And then a little further down the list we have being at Shopping Centre.
Driving or
time in a car and interestingly being at a hotel I suppose that that is because there are some people who travel business purposes because I can't imagine that you would get bored if you're on holiday at a hotel and then lastly way down the list we have been at somebody else's house and being at a restaurant or bar I know that sometimes you
somewhere and you wish that you were at home or you just wish you weren't there.
So I understand that one.
The next question is how do you stop being bored?
I think that there are many things you can do when you're bored and it's best to be prepared before you go to a place where you know you are going to get bored.
For example if you're going to the doctors I know that there isn't going to be any...
internet for you to use your mobile phone then maybe you could take a book or take some knitting for you to do in the waiting room while you wait and if you're at an airport then maybe you can download some songs before you travel and take some headphones with you to listen to music.
There are definitely some situations that you can't really get.
out of like if you have to be a college or you have to be a school or you're at somebody's house when you don't want to be or at a restaurant when you don't want to be, then there isn't a lot you can do really.
For example if you're at college you can't just get a book out in the middle of a lecture or if you're at somebody else's house, you can't just put your head first in.
So maybe you could...
Doodle, if you're in class, doodle means like do little touring to keep yourself entertained.
Or if you're at somebody's house, maybe you could strike up interesting conversation with another person that is there.
The next question is, what is the most boring book you have ever read?
I would say that the most boring piece of literature instead of a book.
book, piece of literature, that I have ever read is Beowulf.
Beowulf is an old epic poem which is written in old English and it is believed that it was written more than a thousand years ago, possibly 1,200 years ago.
So you can imagine the language that it uses.
It's very hard to understand.
In today's video we're going to talk about commuting.
Commuting means travelling to work or school.
How do you commute to your place of work?
Well, I drive to work.
I would like to use public transport, but I live in a small village in the countryside in England.
So it's very hard to catch a bus or a train.
to work.
How far do you travel and how long does it take you?
It takes me about 40 minutes to drive to work and the distance is about 35 kilometers.
Because so many people commute to work, there is usually a lot of traffic on the road in the mornings so there are often traffic jams.
on the road, especially if we compare it to before the pandemic in 2019.
There used to be traffic jams every single morning, whereas now maybe you might get a traffic jam in three two or three days.
In June 2023, 10% of workers in the UK were working from home all the time.
time and 29% of workers were working from home some other time and then 39% of them were unable to work from home.
I found this quite interesting really because I thought that the figures would be a lot higher.
I thought that a lot more people worked from home.
Nice.
about the advantages of working from home.
People mentioned the improved work-life balance that they had fewer distractions, that it was quicker to complete work and that it improved their well-being.
However, there are some disadvantages and many of the employees said that it was harder to work with others, that there are more disadvantages.
distractions and that it is harder to think of new ideas.
It is true though that second highest answer was that there weren't any disadvantages at all.
If you do want to avoid commuting and you want to work from home, these are some of the careers which don't usually go to the workplace.
We have writers, translators.
graphic designers, software engineers, sales representatives and all different types of managers and mentors.
In the comment section I'd like you to discuss whether you prefer working from home or commuting to work and spending more time with your colleagues.
I know that a lot of people
feel like they get a little bit more lonely when they are working from home because they have less interaction.
So maybe you are a sociable person and don't mind committing to work.
So let me know in the comment section and I will correct your answers.
If you have enjoyed this video, please give it thumbs up and subscribe.
Thank you and I'll see you in another video.
That's why it takes longer to get there in the morning than it does to drive back in the evening.
Is it expensive for you to commute?
Well the price of petrol at the moment in the UK is around 143 per litre and that's in pounds so it would be a bit more in years.
Living in a village, I'll jump.
really have another option.
I can't take public transport and I obviously can't walk there because it's very far away.
So I suppose that it's relatively expensive, especially if you calculate how much it costs to make take your car a year.
Why do people commute?
Well I think that people commute to work because nowadays you don't know.
stay in the same company for all your life.
You don't stay there for 30 or 40 years.
It's quite common for people to change their workplace.
In the past you might have decided to buy your house where your workplace is but now with this as the situation has changed then you decide where you're going to live and then you kind of...
adapt.
Some people drive even an hour and a half per day to get their workplace.
I think that another reason why people commute is because city centres have become so expensive to rent and to buy a property in.
So people are living on the outskirts of big towns and drive in.
The quality of life can be...
a lot better as well as poverty prices are a lot lower.
So maybe you have to drive 40 minutes to work every day and 40 minutes back but it's worth it because you can have a bigger half for your family.
The next question is would you accept a job that requires commuting two hours a day one one way?
Well that's four hours of your day.
I suppose that people...
depends on whether you have to drive there or you can take public transport.
Because I do think that driving to work is very comfortable because you don't feel as cold, you can listen to your own music and there aren't any other people around who are annoying you.
But if you have to commute 4 hours a day then it would be a lot more comfortable to go.
I train or I bus because it's more passive.
You just have to get on the bus or train and then get off at your stop and on the way on the journey you can read a book or start working or do something that you enjoy to.
I think that if you had to drive there and spend four hours driving
per day then is for else that you have lost because you can't enjoy that to me.
If you don't like commuting you can always apply for a job in which you can work from home.
Since the pandemic a lot of people have started working from home I was quite interested to read up on the statistics of polyremote workers.
There are definitely a lot less cars.
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcasts.
Today I'm going to be talking about my brother and I using the comparative and superlative forms in English as well as modifiers like far, much, a lot, a great deal and a little, a bit, slightly.
My brother who is called George is 23 years old.
I'm twenty.
22, so I'm only a little younger than him.
He is older than me, but everyone says that I'm more sensible and more responsible than him.
It is true though that my brother is more more responsible than me because I'm slightly quieter and more responsible than me.
it is the most effective.
Today we have practiced the comparative and the superlative forms in English.
If you have liked this video please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.
You can comment on this video telling me about what you and your brother or sister are like.
Are you similar to them or completely different?
Try to use modifiers like far-mort, a lot, a great deal.
However, we are as kind and friendly as each other, so we do have some things in common.
Physically, we are very different and we don't look alike.
I have long blonde hair, but my brother's hair is slightly darker.
Also, he is a lot taller than me.
I am not very short, in fact.
I'm the tallest of my group of friends, but I'm definitely shorter than him.
We are as thin as each other, but he is stronger than me.
He is a great deal, more muscular, as he does a lot of sports.
The older he gets, the more handsome he gets, too.
My brother is good at playing sports.
He is more...
let it for me and does a lot of exercise.
He is better than me at football because he goes to football practice every week.
He is the best player on his team.
He is also faster at running than me so that is why I am worse than him at sports in general.
When we do sports together, he always...
wings which makes him very happy.
He knows that I am far slower and less sporty than him, but he still enjoys playing with me.
I am more creative than my brother, as I'm more interested in music and art.
Playing musical instruments makes me happier than practicing sports.
It is the quickest and the best
way to make me feel calm when I'm stressed.
We never listen to music together because we like different singers and bands but we sometimes paint together.
My brother isn't as good as me but he knows that the more he practices the better he will get at painting in the future.
We both go to lessons in the evenings.
My guitar lessons start at 6pm and my brother's football lessons start at 7pm so he starts later than me.
His football practices are longer than my classes because they last two hours.
My guitar lessons only last one hour so they are a lot shorter.
I think that one hour of music lessons is enough.
because you have to be more concentrated than at a football practice, for example.
My brother can walk to his football practices because he goes to the closest football pitch.
It is nearer than my music school, which is in another town.
Because it is much further, I have to drive there.
Driving is more stressful than walking.
but it is my only option.
George thinks that the easiest option is to have online classes, but during the pandemic I had online classes and I found that learning to play the guitar is far more difficult when you're learning online, so I am happier to continue with my in-person classes.
It isn't a cheapest option, but I think...
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be doing a pet speaking exam, specifically the third part of the speaking exam.
So here we have five ideas for a gift for your mom's birthday and we have to talk about all of the different ideas and then at the end we have to decide which is the best.
option.
The first one is a scarf.
Do you think a scarf would be a good idea for a gift for your mum?
Well, it is a good idea, but my mum has already got a few scarves.
Yes, she has a big collection of scarves, and I don't think it's necessary to buy her another scarf.
I agree.
The next option.
is a book.
What do you think about me buying my mom a book?
I think that would be a really good idea because she enjoys reading.
But do you know what type of book she likes to read?
Yes, she likes to read romantic novels and I'm sure I could find her a good book for her birthday.
Yes, we could go to the bookshop and I know that they have a lot of...
levels there.
The next option is to get her a candle, so maybe a scented candle that smells of strawberries or orange or vanilla.
What do you think about that?
Well I know that she definitely wouldn't like a candle because she has health problems and a candle wouldn't help her a lot.
No I don't think that it...
a good idea.
The next option we have is a necklace.
What do you think about a nice necklace?
That's a really good idea.
We would have to know whether she wanted gold or silver.
Yes, I think she likes gold.
So maybe we could buy her a gold necklace and I think it's a very special gift.
And she will remember...
this birthday present forever.
Yes, we could look into buying her necklace.
And the final option is a blanket.
Do you think she would like to have a blanket for her birthday?
Well, I know that I would really like to have a blanket for my birthday, but I'm not so sure that my mum would.
Why not?
Because she already has a lot of
blankets and I don't think it's necessary to buy her one more.
No, I don't think it's a special gift.
So, which do you think is the best gift?
We have said that the book and the necklace are good ideas.
Which one do you think is the best?
Well, she would enjoy reading a new book, but I think that the necklace is the best option because...
as you say it's a memorable present and she will keep it forever.
Yes and I think that the problem with a book is that we don't know what novels she has read.
So we might buy her a book and she has already read this book.
So yes I agree I think that we should get her the next piece.
If you have enjoyed this video please give it a thumbs up.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
Today I'm going to be doing a speaking practice about learning English and my studies to help you to practice for your speaking tests and to improve your listening skills in English.
I'm going to ask some questions and then I'm going to answer them like they do in speaking exams.
Number one.
Are you a student?
Yes, I'm a student.
At the moment, I'm studying my last year of high school.
This year, I will finish high school and next year, I want to go to university.
Question number two.
How do you get to school?
I go to school by bus because it is far from my house.
My parents can't take me to school in the mornings.
because they start work at 8am and school starts at 8.30.
Question number three, do you like your studies?
I don't like my studies because it is difficult for me to study a lot every day, but I know that I need to study to go to university and get a good job.
At school, I like some subjects more than others.
Question number four.
Do you study English at your school?
Yes, I study English at school and we have five lessons per week.
I think that it is fun to learn English and it is very important for my future.
Question number five, why do you think English is important for your future?
I think that English is important for my future because in my country you
can get a better job if you speak English.
Also, if you know English, it is easier to travel and to talk with other people in different countries.
And to move to another country if I want to when I finish university.
Question number six, when did you start to learn English?
I started to learn English when I was three years old because here in Spain we started
to learn the language when we are very young.
Question number seven.
Who is your favourite teacher?
My favourite teacher is my maths teacher.
Math is a very difficult subject, but my teacher makes it a lot easier because she can explain the content very well.
I think that she is a very friendly and respectful person too.
And she always helps us from...
have a problem.
Question number 8.
What subjects do you study at school?
At school I study French, English, maths, physics and chemistry, biology, history, religion and PE.
Question number 9.
What is your favourite subject?
My favourite subject is PE because I love to practice sports.
In PE we play a lot of sports like football, basketball, volleyball, tennis and badminton.
I love to play volleyball because I'm very good at it and you can play it with your group of friends.
Question number 10.
What subject don't you like?
I don't like physics and chemistry, which are the same subject.
Because it is very difficult.
and I'm not very interested in the content.
I think that the theory is a bit boring and the school book is very hard to study, but I like it when we go to the lab to do experiments.
So today we have talked about learning English and talking about your studies.
So if you have liked this video, please give it a thumbs up.
Yesterday I started work at 8 o'clock.
I left home at 11.35 and I arrived at the office at 11.50.
My commute only took 15 minutes because there wasn't a lot of traffic.
Because I arrived early I parked my car and waited there for 5 minutes for the office to open.
When I sat down.
my desk, I made her to do list to organize my day.
I wrote down all the tasks that I had to do and I put the list on my notice board.
I turned on my computer and checked my emails.
I had a few of them so I replied to the emails that the clients had sent me and I forwarded the emails that were meant for my
boss.
I made some appointments for the clients who had contacted me but a few of them hadn't sent me all of their information so I called them.
I dealt with these clients on the phone because it was a lot faster than waiting for them to email me.
After that I prepared a presentation that I had to give before
lunch.
I researched information about the topic and created a spreadsheet with all of the important figures.
I knew that my colleagues usually asked questions in presentations, so I made sure that I could justify all of my possible answers.
At lunch time, I took a break, made myself
a coffee and discussed work with a colleague who knows a lot of languages.
He translated a document that morning and negotiated an agreement in French.
He's very clever.
I gave a presentation after lunch and it went well.
My bosses gave me positive feedback and my colleagues congratulated me.
At 3 o'clock, I attended a meeting.
One of our bosses explained the problems that my company is having at the moment and asked us to work overtime.
I turned down the offer to work overtime because I felt like I spent too much time at work and not enough at home with my family.
My b-
understood my situation and even thanked me for my good work.
Before it was time to go home, I checked my emails again and made a few photocopies for the following day.
I turned my computer off and tidied up my belongings.
I was exhausted from juggling tasks all day.
So I said,
In today's video we're going to be talking about dogs.
Dogs have been living with humans for thousands of years.
In fact, it is believed that they were one of the first animals to be domesticated by humans around 15,000 years ago.
Dogs are often called man's best friend because they are one of their closest and...
best companions.
There can be companions but they can also be protectors, helpers or lifesavers.
In 2023 it was estimated that there were 12 million dogs living in UK homes.
That's one million more than new cats.
Dogs are very loyal animals and that is...
as rabbits, whereas great dames were used in the middle ages to hunt bears and deer, which are much larger animals.
In the United States, the most common breeds are Labrador's, Golden Retrievers, German Sheffields and Poodles.
In the UK, the top dog breeds are Labrador's, older colleagues.
coquipus, English coquespagno and German shepherd dogs.
Poodle crossbreeds have become very popular in the UK in the last 10 years I would say.
There are crosses between pomeranians, different types of spaniards, lamb radores or york shaterians.
All of these.
breeds across with poodles, it makes them fluffy, with lovely soft, curly fur.
They always seem to be well behaved as well, and they look like the perfect family dog.
An interesting fact that I found is that there are 75 million dogs in the US, more than in any other country of the world.
And interestingly, 45% of the dogs in the US sleep in their own as beds.
I know that this is very controversial.
Even in the US and in the United Kingdom, what do you think about that?
How do you feel about dogs sleeping on your bed?
One of the drawbacks of having the dog is that it comes with responsibility.
such as having to exercise them every day, training them, taking them to the vet and buying food for them.
Dogs need to be walked multiple times a day and taking them for a walk can take up a lot of hours in your daily routine.
So before you get a dog is important for future owners to understand.
that there are many responsibilities that come with only the dog.
There are some words that are related to dogs that I would like to mention before we finish this video.
A canal is a little house made for dogs that you usually put outside.
The beds that they have inside the house are called baskets or just beds.
Waging is the action of the dog's tail when they are happy.
So dogs work their tail when they are excited or happy.
Panting is the action that they do when they are very tired when they have been running.
And it's what they do with their mouth when they are breathing very heavily.
They often do this as well in the summer.
when it's very hot.
A mongrel is a mutt or a mixed breed dog that does not belong to an officially recognized breed.
A stray is a dog that doesn't have a home and lives on the street.
In the UK there aren't many stray dogs but I know that in other countries there are.
our three dogs which roam the street and don't have any owners.
A collar is the object that we put around dogs neck to show that they have a home.
We normally put a name tag on their collars just in case they get lost and off phone number two so that people can contact the owners if they...
find them.
And the last word is lead or leash in American English.
This is the rope or long piece of material that we use when we take our dogs for a walk.
One end of the lead hooks off to the dogs collar and the other end goes in your hand to make sure that the dog doesn't run away.
why they can be good companions.
They form bonds with humans and this can make people happier, feel less rest and be less anxious.
Studies have shown that interactions with dogs can cause the human brain to produce oxytocin.
This hormone increases the beliefs of...
trust, empathy and relaxation and it is known as the cuddle chemical.
It makes you feel fuzzy and warm feeling like when you are cuddling your dog.
Dogs can be trained to assist people with disabilities like guide dogs which can help the blind hearing dogs or
the death and therapy dogs which can offer emotional support.
Therapy dogs are becoming more and more popular especially in the US.
There are over 50,000 therapy dogs in the United States.
These dogs are trained and certified by a variety of organizations.
When the dogs receive their certificate, they can go into hospitals and other facilities to interact with patients and improve their well-being.
Therapy dogs are well-tempered.
That means that they don't growl or bark at people when they try to stroke them.
They must be social and friendly because...
they will need to cheer people up at the use hospitals and community centres.
Dogs can also assist security forces and emergency teams in rescue.
I'm sure you will have seen an earthquake or any other type of disaster where they are trying to search for the victims.
These dogs can help.
locate earthquake survivors in order to rescue them.
They can do this thanks to their sense of smell.
It has been estimated that dogs can smell from 1,000 to 10,000 better than people.
An interesting, fun fact that I have found is that a dog's nose print is unique like a person's fingerprint.
They can actually detect a smell from 10 miles away, which is 16 kilometres.
There are hundreds of different dog breeds and each of them have unique traits, characteristics and purposes.
For example, some breeds are good at herding and others are good at hunting and guarding.
Dogs have been selectively bred to carry out these tasks.
That is why they are also different.
For example, if we compare the size of a great dame and a sausage dog or a dachshund, it's unbelievable to think that they are the same animal.
Dachshunds were bred to hunt small animals.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be doing the part two of Would You Rather Questions with My Mom?
The first question is, would you rather live in the city or the countryside?
I love the countryside, it's very relaxing and I love nature.
It's much more relaxing than being in the city.
I was recently...
in Manchester where there were a lot of people in the centre of the city and in the shops and it became very stressful.
Have you ever lived in a city then?
No, I haven't lived in a natural city but I've lived in a large town which was okay.
Yeah, I live in a city at the minute and I think that it's a not nicer when you come to the countryside because you feel that people aren't stressed back
you rather listen to noisy traffic or terrible music.
I think I would rather listen to noisy traffic because you soon get used to the noise of traffic.
Yeah because you used to live near an airport didn't you?
And you soon get used to the planes going by and you don't really notice them.
Yes that's the same with if you live near a motorway in the end.
becomes background noise and the same with the error planes.
We didn't notice the error plane noise.
Whereas with music, if you don't like that type of music, it can be very annoying.
So in today's video we've done, would you rather questions with my mum?
There will be a part three of these questions.
So please like this video if you've liked it and subscribe to my channel.
Thank you and see you.
store at the time.
When you're in a city and you see everybody on the underground or on the buses it feels like they're always rushing to go to work or just to get to different places but they always seem quite stressed.
Yes and even when walking along the street to the shops if you want to go to a shop there's on the other side of the street.
It's very stressful to cross the road and it just seems very busy all of the time and people don't seem as well.
relaxed as they are in your country.
The next question is, would you rather be too hot or too cold?
I would rather be cold because you can always add layers of clothing or you can have a fire or heating in your house to become warm again.
But when you're too hot, there's very little that you can do to cool yourself down.
Yeah, I prefer to be too cold as well.
But if you ask me this question in the winter,
might say I prefer to be too hot because at the moment we can't really remember what being cold is.
Yes that's true at the moment it's been very hot and I can't imagine even putting on a jumper or a coat so I think it depends what season you're in at the time for this question.
The next question is would you rather be able to talk with animals or speak all foreign languages.
I think I would rather be able to speak to animals because I like animals a lot and I think that it would be very interesting to find out their opinions of how they're living.
Maybe they're happy in their life or maybe they're really unhappy.
I think with a dog though, you can tell if they're happy or not and when the cat is meowing at you, you kind of know what she's saying.
I'm hungry, I'm hungry.
Yes, but what about a rabbit or a giraffe?
They don't say anything at all so it would be interesting to have their perspective online.
The next question is, would you rather eat a rat or a spider?
It would depend if it was cooked or raw.
If it was alive or dead, it really depends on the condition of the creature.
even though I'm vegetarian, I think I would choose to eat the rat if it was cooked.
Well, even though you're vegetarian, a spider is meat as well.
It would be considered meat, wouldn't it?
I suppose so.
I've never thought of a spider being meat.
It's just horrible, but a rat is definitely meat.
Right.
The next question is, would you rather have no water or no electricity?
I think I'd rather have no electricity because you can live without electricity.
It wouldn't be easy initially.
I have lived one weekend without water coming from the taps and it was very difficult to do anything at all.
But you don't need electricity to survive all the time.
You can use candles for light.
You can just see sandwiches so it's not so crucial.
It's not as important as water.
Yeah, I agree.
I think when you haven't got water, you can't really do anything.
You can't cook, you can't wash dishes, you can't go to toilet.
Yeah, and you just feel dirty all the time, even though you aren't.
You start thinking of the things you can't do because of the lack of water.
Whereas if you haven't got electricity for a few hours, you can soon find something to do.
The final question is, would you...
In today's video, I'm going to be answering some questions about emails.
The first question is, how often do you send emails?
I would say that I send at least one email per day.
I use email at work and I also use it at home, especially for sending emails related to my YouTube channel.
I also send emails to send documents and send attachments in general.
I think that is an easy way to send a picture or document like a PDF file to somebody.
I think that uploading the document or picture to a storage platform can be more complicated for some people because then they don't know how to do it.
accepted on my university course.
Before going to university you have to apply to all of these different universities and courses that you might be interested in, but you usually have your own preference.
You have your top choice and the other ones are just like these.
So I have sent my...
application to many universities for different courses and then my top choice university and course sent me an email saying that I had been accepted.
I was very happy because it is what I wanted and it feels like a long wait since you sent the application until they actually give an answer.
It was
one of those moments where I had to read the message several times because I didn't believe what I was reading.
The next question is, what was the worst email you have ever received?
I think that the worst email that I have ever received is probably one of those emails that you get like an official and legitimate email.
email, because you need to pay for something.
Like for example, you went to the doctors or the dentist and you sent an email, you an estimate of the cost and it's very expensive or you have to get some work done on your house and you receive that email and it's not a pleasant feeling.
So we finish.
I'd like to mention some email vocabulary that you might not have known.
The symbol that we use in our email address is at.
So for example, my email could be elephant at gmail.com.
If you have received an email from someone and you want to send that email to somebody else, then you...
forward it.
If you write an email but you don't finish writing it then it is addressed and you will find that email in the draft section.
Junk is another way to save rubbish so if you're on your email account and you see junk then it means the rubbish emails that you have received.
download it.
Most people know how to receive emails and to download the documents or photographs that you send them.
So it's a quick and effective method.
How much of the email that you receive is spam?
Well, I don't receive a lot of spam, but I do receive a lot of emails which are...
ads.
So maybe two years ago I signed up to a website and they won't stop sending me emails to advertise their website.
I think that this can become quite annoying because sometimes they send you emails every two or three days.
I know that you can unsubscribe or unsubscribe from their newsletter.
but sometimes they still continue sending you emails and it's very annoying.
The next question is, have you ever handwritten a letter and sent it to someone?
If yes, how often do you send letters and to whom?
Yes, about 15 or 20 years ago I used to write a lot of handwritten.
letters to send to my relatives.
However nowadays they all have social media so it's become a lot easier to contact them and I can just send them a message and we can chat.
We don't have to wait days to read and answer.
In the last few years the only reason why I've had to write...
a handwritten letter is because for some paperwork or to apply to some things you need to send a handwritten letter because they don't have a platform for it online yet.
I actually hate when I have to write a handwritten letter because I think that it's so outdated.
I think that they have had enough time to update.
their websites or their systems and it just makes paperwork take so much longer because it might take three days for their letter to arrive then they have to actually read it and then send a letter back so it just makes the process a lot more difficult and a lot more frustrating.
The next question is have you ever pressed send?
and then wished you hadn't.
Yes, I have often wished I hadn't pressed send, but mostly because I have forgotten to attach the document that I had to.
Like maybe I was writing an email saying, I have attached the PDF file to this email and then I didn't.
And then when I had pressed the button, I
realized that I hadn't attached it.
But what I do is I just resend the email and say sorry and apologise for not having that.
The next question is, what was the best email you have ever received?
I think that the best email I have ever received was the one that my university sent me to say that I had been...
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 186 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great.
I hope that your English learning is going well and that you feel more comfortable understanding me in these episodes.
And in today's episode, we're going to talk
about the topic of artificial intelligence, which I've already talked about in a previous episode, but in this episode I want to talk specifically about being replaced by artificial intelligence.
And specifically I'm going to be addressing myself here as someone who creates
Of course, if there is AI tools that will make our job easier and faster and better, then it's important to try to incorporate this.
Otherwise, other people who are using these tools will be way ahead of me, because you're not using it.
the tools you should be using, right?
And you should use these types of tools for what they're good at.
In my opinion, that is like the mindless tasks.
Mindless means that you don't have to think really.
You're just doing it without needing to use a lot of brain power.
So it's probably a good idea.
to use AI to help you complete these mindless tasks that just take up a lot of time.
So I partially agree with this idea that people should start using AI with my fault behind.
I get that.
However, the problem is that some people use AI to
do their job for them.
Like they're just relying on AI to actually do more than just the simple mindless tasks.
Like they want to use AI, sort of, a lot of things, almost everything, right?
And if their content creators like me, for example, they might...
even be using AI to do the creative parts of their job.
And admittedly, I've tried this once, okay?
Not because I wanted AI to do my job for me, but because I wanted to see how effective it was.
I wanted to just try it out and see what it could do.
So, me, for example, I have to write a lot of scripts because I have weekly podcast episodes, bonus episodes, advanced episodes, phrasal verb episodes, all kinds of content, YouTube videos, seminars, all these different things that I have to write scripts for.
And I say that I write.
scripts for these different things.
That doesn't mean I write down every word that I'm going to say.
No, I have to just prepare an outline.
An outline is like a general structure that you can follow.
I have to do this.
Otherwise, I'll have no idea what I'm going to talk about.
lot of work that I do every month just writing scripts and it takes creativity.
I have to think of ideas and be creative with ideas.
It's not easy actually.
This is honestly one of the hardest parts of the job.
I think for example that editing, uploading, that takes a long time.
That's probably what takes the longest amount of time, but it's not the hard part.
That just takes a long time.
For example, if I had an AI tool that could effectively edit my content, then that would probably be a good idea for me to do that.
Use that tool.
I don't have that tool yet, but who knows, maybe in the future.
have one.
However, the script writing part is the part that really involves creativity.
And of course, the recording part, what I'm doing now, right?
These are the creative parts of my job personally.
And so I've actually tried to use AI to help generate my scripts.
content online for English learners.
I want to talk about this idea that I might be replaced by AI.
AI stands for artificial intelligence.
So will I be replaced by AI?
Can AI do what I do and do it better and more effectively?
First of all, I actually used AI to generate a couple scripts for those YouTube videos I used to make.
Those really short videos, like A1 listening practice videos, etc.
And I was not happy with it.
I had to change the scripts.
It didn't really help me out that much.
But I thought that maybe instead of...
using AI to write a script for me, maybe I could just use it to generate a list of ideas for my episodes.
And this is a good idea, right?
Because AI can think of all these different ideas that you haven't thought of and you can still be creative but just use...
ideas generated by artificial intelligence.
So I did this and honestly I didn't really like a lot of the topics that gave me and part of that is my fault.
I should have continued and should have been more specific maybe with my question for that AI.
But I took one of the topics that I...
gave me and I said okay let me do this and I did this topic I talked about it one of my episodes and honestly I think that was one of my worst episodes of all time I'm not gonna tell you which one it was but it was an episode that just lacked creativity
and it lacked the human element that is in all of my other episodes.
Okay?
So I just took that topic, that the AI tool gave me, and I just kind of wrote a logical outline around that topic and recorded the episode.
And it was the only time that I talked about the topic.
that didn't really come from my own mind, my own inspiration.
And my opinion, you can tell when you listen to that episode.
Maybe you can't, and I'm very happy if you have no idea which episode I'm talking about.
But I can feel it.
I think that the reason for that is that I didn't add my...
own creativity to this topic.
And so yes, I could say that this saved me time in terms of thinking of a topic, right?
It generated an idea for me.
So that's good.
However, if AI does all the creative work for you, then we have a problem because...
Number one, for me at least, I'm not adding my own creativity, so it doesn't really have the same value as my other content.
But number two, if AI can do your job for you, even the creative parts, the really analytical parts or the personal parts, whatever, that means that...
AI can replace you.
Think about it.
If AI does your job for you, then what is your purpose?
Why do you need to be there?
Right?
Someone else can easily just command the AI to do the same thing.
So here is where the problem is with people trying to use a...
AI to basically do their job for them.
If the AI does their job for them, that means that this human is completely replaceable.
There is nothing that you in that situation are actually adding.
You are only relying on AI.
So I think that the advice that people build.
efficiently.
This is an interesting question and I want to talk about some of my own ideas about how I plan to avoid this, avoid being replaced by AI as a content career.
This will be more particular to content creation, doing what I do.
However,
use AI for as much as possible is not always the best advice because if you're using it too much then you're actually just showing you're proving that You're not needed AI can just do everything right imagine if you are employer and you realize that your employee doesn't actually
do any of the work, they just are able to command the AI to do all the work for them.
Well, you as an employer might think, well, why do I really need this employee?
AI is doing all the work.
The employee isn't really necessary here.
Maybe I can give commands to AI or someone else.
can do it for much cheaper or something.
You can see that issue there.
So as a content creator, for me, for example, I want to make sure that I am creating content that is not something that AI can create.
And you might say to me, oh, AI I can do what you do.
Sure, AI can.
I'll probably create a podcast and do this type of stuff now.
However, can AI talk to you about my experience learning Spanish?
I don't think so, because that AI does not have my experience learning Spanish.
Can AI talk to you about my recent trip to Mexico and everything I did there and ate there?
No, that's...
something that only I can talk about.
And for me as a content creator, that personal element, that unique perspective that I offer is what makes me non-replaceable.
And so as long as I'm adding my own perspective, my own creativity, my own experience.
my own stories, my own personal opinions, things like that.
I can't actually be replaced by AI in the sense that AI can't say these same things to me, right?
From my point of view.
Okay, sure.
You might find a better podcast made by artificial intelligence and go listen to that, but you get my point.
There is no AI that can give you exactly what I'm giving you from my experience.
And when it comes to the language learning world, when it comes to people learning English, for example, most language learners value this human aspect.
I've asked students this before.
I've asked them if you could have classes within.
AI robot that can talk to you just like a human and Can have great conversations with you and help you with your English and point out your mistakes but It's a robot and you know that it's not person Would you want to do that?
and many times people
say, no, even if they know that AI is going to do a good job, one huge element of language learning is human connection.
People can be excited about robots, about AI, but you don't feel the same human connection to that AI that you do with a human.
Trust me, if you're...
learning a language without any type of goal or ambition to talk to people in that language or understand humans, their culture or whatever in that language.
It's harder to find the motivation to learn that language.
I'm not saying it's impossible.
I'm saying people learn languages and never interact with the culture.
Many of you can probably also learn from this as well.
Even though I'm going to be talking about my own experience and more about my job and not being replaced, I'm sure that many of you can learn from this as well.
You can apply some of these principles to your job if you...
of that language, but that's the minority of people.
Most people, when they want to learn language, they want the human element.
They want the human aspect, the cultural aspect, etc.
Okay.
So that's something that helps me in my job.
I add that human element.
So how about your job, you might not do anything similar to what I...
do, but there might be some similar concepts there.
Maybe you add a very personal touch to your job, as we say.
Maybe you have a unique perspective, a unique background, maybe a unique way of communicating to people.
There might be something that you add that is very huge.
that is very valuable in your position, that an AI can't act to that position, right?
And I think that it's important to capitalize on those attributes, those traits, those skills that have.
When you capitalize on something, this means that you take advantage of that thing.
really make the most of that thing.
So I think that you should identify what it is that you bring to your job that AI can't.
And you should really focus on that.
Make sure that that element is really adding a lot of value to the job.
So in my case, it's pretty clear because I have...
podcast, YouTube channel, I'm talking, I'm being creative, but you can probably find something similar in your job, right?
So in my opinion, I think it's better to focus on the things that AI can't replicate rather than just focusing on trying to use AI for as much as possible.
to save you time.
I think both of those things are good.
Like I said at the beginning, I think we should use whatever tools have to help us do our job better, faster effectively, etc.
especially with mindless tasks or tasks that can be easily delegated to AI tool.
We should do that while at the same time focusing on doing things, creating things, adding things that aren't replaceable by an AI.
Right?
Focusing on increasing our skills that are really not replacing.
So yeah, an AI might end up being better than...
you technically speaking, but your job probably isn't 100% technical.
There are probably other things that your job involves.
So for me, I have a lot of personalization in my podcast, my YouTube channel.
There's a personal angle, right, when I talk to you about language learning.
I'm not just...
looking up facts about language learning and talking to you about them.
I'm talking to you about my own experience as a language name.
That's very valuable.
That's something that AI can't replace.
So all of that is I think important in terms of me at least not being replaced by.
So all that.
being said, I do want to say that AI is very helpful for many things and I've used it before.
It has helped me find information very fast and there are some great things that it does and there might be some cool AI language learning tools.
have this doubt about whether or not you might be replaced by AI one.
So this is an interesting topic, a relevant one for the present day and I hope that you find it interesting.
And I want to mention that if you haven't used my advanced podcast episodes yet, it's time that you start to use them if you feel comfortable.
If there's a really good one that I end up liking all endorse it.
Right?
I think that if you can incorporate AI to help you even with language learning, that's awesome.
Right?
So maybe in the future I'll talk about AI tools that help with language learning or whatever else.
Right?
So I don't want you to think that I down.
on this technology.
Obviously there is a lot that it can help with and it will only become more helpful in the future.
Sure, but I won't worry about being replaced by AI as long as I'm creating content the right.
As long as I don't start using AI to generate all of my ideas.
and try to do the creative part for me.
At that point, that probably means that I have lost the human aspect of my job and I'm not valuable anymore.
And I can just be replaced by an AI that can do this podcast for me.
Right?
That's what I want to avoid.
So maybe I can...
use AI in the future to help generate some ideas, but then take those ideas and make them my own and get inspired and talk about those things from a very personal angle.
So I think I can use AI together with my creativity and conjunction with my creativity to be more
more effective and faster, but maybe not lose that human aspect.
And so who knows, maybe I'll do more of that in the future, but admittedly right now, I think of all my ideas on my own.
I tend to get inspired at random times throughout the day.
Oh, I'll do an episode about this.
So far, I haven't needed...
A.I.s help for that.
But who knows?
Maybe one day it can help me even with generating certain ideas that I can use and then be creative with my own way, right?
We'll see.
But I hope this episode was interesting for you.
Maybe it got you thinking about your own career and how you can avoid being replaced by artificial intelligence.
And I want to encourage you to use my...
advanced episodes if you haven't done so already, these will help you get a custom to fast English because I speak fast in those episodes.
So the link to sign up is down below.
And I also want to encourage you to check out my US Conversations Podcast because eventually you will need to understand conversations when you're with groups of people you have to be able to understand.
with these normal episodes.
If these normal episodes feel pretty easy for you now, it's time for you to move on to the advanced episodes to take your listening to the next level.
So if you're interested in that, you can click on the link below and sign up to become a listening time fan member.
And for some of you, it might be time to start listening to the next level.
listening to conversations that native speakers have with each other, listening to more than one person talking.
If that's your case, then I recommend that you sign up for my US Conversations Podcast in which I talk to other native speakers from around the country.
It's great practice for your listening and a lot of fun.
You learn a lot about the UX.
So the link to sign up is also.
or down below.
And if you can, please give this podcast a five-star rating and write a review.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about being replaced by artificial intelligence.
I constantly hear content creators like YouTubers.
podcasters talking about how important it is to start using AI artificial intelligence or else you'll fall behind.
Meaning everyone else will pass you up and you won't be able to keep up with your competitors, your competition.
I partially agree with this.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 187 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope your English learning is going great and I hope you're ready to hear about a trip that I took recently.
I can't remember when my last trip episode was probably the flight.
one I think.
So it's been a little while so I hope you're ready to hear a little bit about my travels because in this episode I'm going to talk about my recent trip to Mexico City and then in the next episode I'm going to talk about my trip to Puebla, a different state in Mexico.
So I went to
to go somewhere else in Mexico with more flight options and Maybe somewhere that would be a little bit easier for everyone Okay, so that's why we chose Mexico City because also my sister's family and my dad None of them had ever been to Mexico City.
So I love Mexico City I had already been there What
before this year.
My wife had been there once.
She really liked it.
So we love Mexico City.
I think it's a fantastic place to travel to.
So I said let's go back to Mexico City.
That would be awesome to take my family there.
So we decided on Mexico City and my sister said yes.
Dad wanted to go.
So we took...
a whole family trip to this city.
So we ended up renting an Airbnb with four bedrooms.
We needed four rooms to fit all of us because we had, I think, nine people in total, if I'm not mistaken.
So yeah, four rooms were necessary.
And so it was a little complicated with the kids.
kids, just making sure the sleeping arrangements were okay and it wasn't a lot of space even though it was for bedrooms.
That sounds like a lot and it is but there wasn't a lot of common area.
So the common area means like the shared area of a house or apartment like the living room, the dining room, etc.
So the common area was pretty small so it was a little complicated Especially with these and stuff, but it wasn't bad.
It was a Great place to rent I think I think it's a good air being Overall, so where did we stay exactly in Mexico City?
Most of you probably don't know much about the neighborhoods of Mexico City But some
Some of you might, I have a lot of Mexican listeners, so some of you might know different neighborhoods and maybe some of you have been to this neighborhood that I'm going to talk about, which is La Condeza.
So this is the most chic neighborhood, probably in all of Mexico.
So the word chic means like stylish, maybe a little elegant.
fashionable, let's say.
It's a very fashionable neighborhood.
And if you know what neighborhood I'm talking about, and you know what I'm saying is true, it is a neighborhood, Mexico City, with many trees, many interesting buildings that are very picturesque.
You just want to take pictures of them.
because of their design, their doors, windows, and on every street basically in this neighborhood you have all of these different interesting, hip, stylish establishments.
So coffee shops, restaurants, and little boutique clothing stores, and all kinds of
different places like that and you probably know me by now that I love eating at restaurants I love going to coffee shops to work or just a drink coffee or a tea or whatever and so you can imagine that this type of neighborhood is like perfect for a short vacation and not only that
But there are really cool parks in this neighborhood.
It's even pretty good for kids in the sense that there's a big playground there.
One of the biggest playgrounds I've ever seen.
And there are trees everywhere.
And it's of course safer than many other neighborhoods.
Sidewalks are better kept.
both of these places on the same trip.
So I want to dedicate one episode to Mexico City and another episode to Puerto.
So I was originally supposed to go to Chiapas.
I think I even talked about this maybe in an advanced episode.
If I'm not mistaken.
I think it was the episode where I talked about places.
When we say something is like well kept, that means that it is well maintained.
So sidewalks, well maintained, there is more space I think for you to walk some of these different sidewalks.
So it's just a really cool neighborhood.
You should look up pictures of it or really you should...
go to Mexico City once in your life and go check out this neighborhood especially if you like good food coffee and desserts and things like that it's perfect okay it's funny because when I lived in Guadalajara we lived in the neighborhood that is considered to be the coolest neighborhood in the city and it even won that award
2022 it was crowned the coolest neighborhood in the world that year by a particular magazine and Time I read I thought it was super cool still do But what's funny is that This neighborhood in Mexico City, La Condeza is like that but times fine or something in terms of How many
cool establishments and places it has per square meter like my neighborhood in Guadalajara was really cool and had very similar places but it was a little more spread out so there weren't as many places per square meter versus this neighborhood in Mexico City is just packed with really cool interesting
So that's where we stayed and one of our biggest reasons why I like to go to Mexico City is to walk around this neighborhood, eat amazing food there, relax, go to the parks, just chill in this area as we might say.
When you chill, this just means that you hang out somewhere, you spend time somewhere.
So, I'll just give kind of a brief rundown of what we did in Mexico City.
We were only there for four days.
By the way, the word rundown refers to like a quick summary of something or it can be like an analysis of it.
In this case, it's a summary.
So I'll give you a brief rundown of our few days in Mexico City.
We got there late at night.
the first night, not super neat, but it was already dark and so really we just ate and took a brief walk also because my sister wanted churros and so I told her we could walk, go get churros and just that first night during that very brief walk that we took to go to the churros place, my family saw how cool the neighborhood.
it was and they were raving about it that whole night.
When you rave about something, that means that you talk a lot about how amazing something is.
So they were raving about how cool the neighborhood was.
So I was happy because it seemed like I chose the right place to go with them.
So we didn't really have any time the first night.
We just ate.
got those churros and went to bed.
So the second day we walked around this neighborhood and we walked around the neighborhood that is right next to this neighborhood called Roma Norde and that's another really famous neighborhood has interesting history if I'm not mistaken and it's beautiful in terms of its architecture.
It has a
amazing food.
That neighborhood has incredible restaurants and just a lot of stuff to see.
So we walked all around those neighborhoods and then we ended up going to the Anthropology Museum which is maybe the most famous museum in Mexico City.
If not the most famous then it's like top-leg.
It's the one that people will usually tell you that.
I really want to travel to.
And I think I mentioned that I was almost certain that I was gonna go to Chiapas, which is a state in South of Mexico.
That was the original plan.
But what happened was we went to Mexico City and Puebla instead.
I hope I can still go to Chiapas in the future.
I still wanna go there.
But.
you shouldn't miss.
If you're gonna go to one museum in Mexico City, it should probably be the anthropology museum.
I don't like everything in that museum, but there are some things that are super cool, these artifacts from indigenous people from centuries ago.
It is quite the experience to go.
I should say.
So we went there.
We didn't spend that much time there because we have small kids.
They obviously don't want to spend hours at a museum.
But we went there and then we went and walked through the peck park.
I'll call it in English.
I'll probably translate some of these things to English instead of saying them in Spanish because not all of you.
our Spanish speakers obviously.
So there's this huge green area known as the Chapputapec forest park.
However, you want translated and there's a lot to see there.
It's a really nice area.
And at the top of the hill, middle of this park is a castle.
Chapputapec castle.
And what's really cool.
about this castle is that it's one of only two royal palaces that were inhabited by monarchs in North America.
Let me just help you understand that.
In North America there are only two royal palaces where monarchs lived like the king or these monarchs, these people.
So this
one of them and then the other ones also in Mexico City.
I think so there is a lot of interesting history in this castle and if I'm not mistaken according to my wife because my wife had a grandpa who died years ago but he was a painter and I believe that one of his paintings was actually
in this palace.
So it's not there anymore but the fact that her grandpa had a painting in this really really famous historical building is pretty interesting.
So I just wanted to mention that.
So we went to that castle.
It was really cool.
Obviously it's an amazing building and then after that we just ate.
and went back to the Airbnb.
We walked a lot that day.
That was a lot of walking though.
So the next day, we went to the Frida Kahlo Museum.
Many of you know who Frida Kahlo was.
Admittedly, I'm not a fan of Frida Kahlo.
I'm not someone who is really interested in her or not like a fan of her art.
either.
So this is not something that is dreaming about doing whatever.
But it's a famous museum in Mexico City and we decided to go also because my sister is an artist.
She's an art teacher for those of you that have listened to my conversation with her.
You already know that by now.
But she really wanted to go there as well.
She really loves art.
And so we went to that museum.
And even though I'm not a fan of her or her art, the house that she lived in is magnificent.
So the museum is like her old house where she used to live.
So it's a really cool house with a really cool courtyard.
So if anything, just seeing the house.
walking around there was really interesting.
We had a good time there and this museum is located in a neighborhood called Koyakon which is a very interesting neighborhood that I had never been to before.
So I wanted to visit this neighborhood and we were already gonna go to the museum so it was perfect.
We got to walk around...
this time we went somewhere else.
So I'll talk about that in today's episode and I want to remind you that if these normal episodes are starting to feel a little easy for you, then it's time for you to start using my advanced podcast episodes in which I speak fast.
That is the next step for you to help you understand native speakers when they're speaking normally.
Not slowly.
this neighborhood a little bit.
It has a really interesting kind of appearance.
I think that it's beautiful neighborhood and a really good breakfast there.
So that was great.
And then from there, we went further down towards the outside of the city to Sochi Milco, which is where tourists usually go.
to rent a boat and go on the water there because there are a lot of different canals that go all through that area of Mexico City and so this is a really fun thing to do with kids as well and I hadn't done it before so we wanted to do it this time and we only went out for an hour
wasn't a long time but we had kids with us, so one hour is fine.
If you're going without kids then yeah you probably want to spend two hours, three hours going around through interesting places and seeing interesting things there on the water but we just went for hour and by that time it was already pretty late actually we had spent.
a lot of time in Koyakon, the museum.
So by the time we were done with that, it was time to go back, eat dinner and all of that.
So that was the third day.
And then the fourth day, which was the last full day, the rest of my family went to Teotihuacan.
The pyramids, a little bit outside the city.
My wife and I had already been there before.
So we...
Didn't go this time because we've already been and we went when they still allowed you to like walk up The pyramids and everything.
I think now it's more limited.
You can't go up all the pyramids So we went when there was a little bit more freedom there So it's a really cool place.
Obviously I wanted them to see it if they had that desire So
We just told them like you guys can go without us Hang out around here.
So they went to the pyramids and we just kind of Walked around didn't do too much, but that's what we wanted to do We wanted to kind of relax In that pool neighborhood.
I got my haircut actually We took my son to the park to play so it was a nice peaceful The
day and then they came back later that day we met up with them walked around some more the kids played along so it was a peaceful last day for us they did more than us they went to the spirit but it was very peaceful day for us so that was more or less what did while we were there we had three full days so not a lot
I think that did what we wanted to do and I want to spend this last part of this episode Talking about the food because honestly This is one of the reasons why I like to travel to Mexico One of the biggest Draws for me the signs of the fact that I lived there for many years wives from there There are just amazing places
especially in the city like Mexican city.
So it's hard to remember how many great things we ate because there were so many but I'll just name some of them.
For example we had some really good pastries by the way we're pastry refers to like sweet bread you know croissants and cinnamon rolls and these types of
sweet things that are like, bread-based.
So the first morning, my sister, wife, brother-in-law, they got these croissants, these almond croissants, and I didn't get one that first morning, but they ate them.
And what my sister and my brother-in-law said was that it was the best croissant they've ever had.
and clearly like I'm speaking now.
Okay, so if you're interested in those advanced episodes, you can click on the link below to sign up to become a listening time fan.
And I also recommend that you check out my US Conversations podcast.
In that podcast, I talked to other native speakers from around the country.
It's a lot of fun.
I actually just reported an episode with my name.
that it was better than the persons they had pairs.
And I'm not going to say that.
I'm not going to try to cause a fight here.
I know some of you are from France and you would strongly disagree with the idea that a place in Mexico could have better persons than in pairs.
But I tried it on our last morning, I think.
And yeah, it was really good.
So that was, yeah, the best croissant I've ever had.
So croissants, guava rolls, like sweet bread with guava and other stuff inside, which were amazing.
And we went to a specific restaurant in Koyokan.
I think I already referenced it.
We went there for breakfast and it was like a...
Masa based restaurant.
Masa is like dough, like dough that you use to make food with.
It's like dough with a specific preparation made from ground corn.
Okay, so that's masa.
So they had all these different dishes that were masa-based and they're kind of like pre-Hispanic dishes.
Like these things were eaten in Mexico.
ago even before the Spanish came.
So these are like really old dishes that the people that lived there for centuries would eat.
So it's really cool.
I like eating that type of food that has such a history.
So not just the history but the deliciousness as well.
That food was so good.
That was some of the...
best food we ate in Mexico City.
I remember eating toakoyo.
I can't even really describe these things sorry but if you look at the transcript and you get the spelling of these things you can look them up on your own.
I can't remember some of the other things.
I know we had quesadillas, atole, things like that.
So really really good food there.
We ate...
It's a really good seafood.
My wife is a huge fan of Awachile, which is like shrimp and cucumber and onion that is like raw, but it's cooked in lime juice and has a particular sauce on it that is usually spicy.
So she had that and she said it was one of the best ones she's ever had.
I ate a really good...
fish taco one best I've ever had.
I also ate chilequiles one morning.
If you're Mexican you know what this is.
If not, you should look it up.
Again, look at the transcript and copy and paste these words.
I want you to see them for yourselves because I'm not very good at describing food.
But this is one of my favorite breakfasts in general and so I eat this at a particular restaurant.
strong in our neighborhood and it was out of this world.
It was fantastic.
Probably top three, Cheelakki was that I've ever had.
So there was that one of the things I remember was this hot chocolate that we had that had hazelnut cream inside of it and my sister said it was her favorite hot chocolate.
So from those different
and drinks that I described, you can see that he really enjoyed the gastronomy there, the food and the drinks.
They were amazing.
And we had some of the best things that we've ever tried.
So it was great just for that reason alone.
But obviously the overall experience was really fun.
We did some fun stuff, saw school, places.
the kids enjoyed it.
So I'm really thankful that I was able to go to Mexico City with my whole family.
That's definitely something that will remember for the rest of our lives.
I think that we took a lot of photos.
So we'll have those to look back on in the future and reminisce.
So I'm very thankful that we were all able to go as a family.
So in the next episode I'm going to talk about Weblar.
system.
I think that episode will already have been released by the time that you listen to this episode.
So if you sign up for my US Conversations podcast, you can listen to the recent conversation that I had with my sister.
So go and check that out.
The link is down below.
And as always, please give this podcast a five star rating if you can.
And
because my dad and then my family we continued on and went to another place in Mexico, oh, Puebla, and my sister and her family at home.
So in the next episode I'll talk about that so we won't want to miss it.
We had a lot of amazing food there as well.
So I'll talk about that next time.
And I want to remind you to start listening to my advanced podcast episodes if these normal episodes have become funny.
and writer of you if you're able to.
All right, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about my recent trip to Mexico City before I talk about webla in the next episode.
So Mexico City, why did we end up going here instead of going to Chiapas as I had originally planned?
Well, we were planning that trip earlier this year and we ended up talking to sister about that trip and she expressed an interest in also going to Mexico and it got us thinking that maybe we could do another family trip.
Okay, so wife and I were thinking about this and
And we realized it would be a little bit harder to go to where we originally wanted to go to.
The city really wants to visit because of the flight schedules and because we would be traveling with small children.
My small children and my sister's small children.
And we thought that it would be easier.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 178 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing fantastic and you might be able to hear that I'm just a little bit under the weather.
I'm just tiny bit sick.
Really, I don't feel that bad, but my throat is a little bit sore.
And so you'll maybe hear that in this episode and probably in the next couple episodes as well because I record these episodes back to back.
When we say that you do something back to back, we're saying that you do it consecutively without any interruption.
So, hopefully I don't say I'm too bad and in today's episode...
I heard that opinion sometimes and I also heard the opinion that Americans aren't very friendly and that Americans are somewhat cold and formal more so than people from a lot of other countries.
And I also just heard this opinion recently that Americans are like peaches whereas
Other people from certain countries are like coconuts.
A peach is that fruit that is soft on the outside.
It even feels like it has like little tiny hairs almost.
But then on the inside there's this hard for.
So this opinion is that Americans appear friendly on the outside.
But...
But when you try to go deeper, they're not as easy to develop a very strong friendship group.
Versus people that are coconuts, are people that have a hard exterior, like they don't look friendly, they don't smile at you, if you are someone they don't know, and they probably don't make small talk with you.
But if you really crack into their shell, then it's soft and sweet on the inside.
So I heard that opinion recently and I don't necessarily agree 100% with that.
I think it really depends on the person and it depends on where you're from.
So with the opinions that I just mentioned, like people...
people who normally say, who normally tell me, that Americans seem super friendly, overly friendly.
These people often come from places like Eastern Europe, East Asia, Russia, places like that.
And in those places, it might not be very common for people to smile all the time.
And in those places, it might not be very common for people to smile all the time.
Make small talk with people and talk with people on the airplane that you're flying on People you're sitting next to that might not be very common versus US it's a little more common and then Some people that would tell me that Americans aren't very friendly and that we are Cold formal these people often come from
Latin America, or maybe very warm countries.
So that's just a general kind of overview, but that's the trend that I have seen throughout my time as a teacher.
And both of those groups have some criticism of Americans' friends because even the people who say that Americans super friendly, happy, smiley.
They will often say that it seems fake kind of like the peach illustration that It looks really good on the outside But inside it's partner right so both of those groups tend to have some criticism The friendliness of America so What are my opinions?
What do I think about this?
well My thoughts are gonna be
a little scattered.
When I say scattered, I'm saying that they're all over the place.
They're not in a very neat order, let's say.
They're going to be disorganized because, like I mentioned earlier, this is kind of a hard question to answer.
So there are a few things to consider.
First of all, we need to recognize that we tend to generalize.
when talking about countries or people from a certain country.
And I know that you know this, but it's worth repeating.
We tend to generalize, but there's always some truth to these generalizations.
It's probably not the entire truth, but there's a reason why we have a certain stereotype or why we generalize in a certain way.
We're going to talk about the question are Americans friend?
And let me just warn you right now that there won't be a very clear answer here.
The answer will be a little bit, let's say nuanced, meaning it's not just super clear on the surface.
That's it.
I'll give my it.
about certain people.
There's some truth usually to that.
And another thing to consider is that it depends on where you are in the US, of course.
There are some places here that would be considered friendlier places.
And there are some places that would be considered colder places.
Talking about friends.
So a great example of this is New York City.
So people have this stereotype of New York City as being very unfriendly, cold, not a friendly place.
And when I visited New York City, I got that impression as well.
So I can't say that I really disagree with that.
But that's a great example of...
how a certain part of the US might seem really unfriendly, and if you only travel there, then you're going to leave with the impression that Americans aren't friendly.
But in reality, people in other cities, other states, might tend to be friendlier on average, which I think is the case for most places outside of.
New York City.
Most places are probably friendlier in the US than New York City.
So it also depends on where you are in the country.
And it also depends on your definition of friendly.
What does friendly mean for you?
For some people, friendly refers more to the exterior, what's on the surface, like this person.
person is always smiling at people, talking to strangers, complimenting people in public on their dress or how cute their baby is, or whatever.
For some people, that's friendly.
For other people, their definition of friend is more something that's deeper.
They don't care at all about the surface.
it's if you can really develop deep relationships easily with those people, right?
Or maybe not even just easily, but can you develop deep relationships if you make the difference in whether or not people consider Americans friendly.
And one other really important point that I want to...
want you to really retain, when you retain something, this means that you keep it with you.
In this case, you keep it in your mind.
Most people don't talk about this when they talk about this topic.
And that is that when you develop an opinion about how friendly people are from a certain country, usually that opinion is based on your experience.
going to that country, interacting with those people, not always, but that's often the case.
And if that's the case, you're making the judgment from a foreigner's perspective.
Okay?
So think of it this way.
If you travel to the US and let's say you're from Brazil, I have tons of people that listen to me from Brazil.
So that's a good example.
If you're from...
Brazil and you live in the US, your perception of how friendly Americans are will really be affected by the fact that you're a foreigner.
Because in some countries foreigners are extremely interesting or rare.
Like you don't see them often and people are really curious about those foreigners.
For example, when I go to Mexico, especially to the places that are a little bit outside the touristic areas, people are pretty interested in me.
They look at me, they are curious to talk to me, they haven't seen tons and tons of foreigners like me in their town, for example, in their small city or whatever.
opinions about this.
And I think that this is an interesting topic for all of you, probably, because you're probably somewhat interested in American culture because you're learning English and you probably have your own ideas about whether or not Americans are friendly.
So that's what we'll talk about today.
And I want to remind you that if you want my extensions about my prejudice, if you want my training, please,隻 flip flip flip from
people have a natural interest in foreigners.
So I might have that perception that people in Mexico are super friendly, but it's because I'm a foreigner and they want to talk to me.
I've been in situations where it's me and then a Mexican person and when we go into a social setting, everyone is interested in me.
Not the other...
Mexican person because I'm a foreigner.
So in the US, this is kind of the opposite.
If you go to big cities in the US where most people go when they travel as tourists to the US, you are going to go to places where the people are very accustomed to seeing foreigners.
Okay, let's just face it, there are many.
many more foreigners in big cities in the US than in a lot of other places around the world.
By the way, when we say let's face it, we're saying let's accept this truth.
So people aren't going to be as thrilled, thrilled means super excited and happy about something.
People won't necessarily be at home.
has ruled the talk to you just because you're a foreigner and that's interesting for them.
But that is the case for a lot of other people that travel to other countries where it's not common to see a lot of foreigners.
So you might not feel that same warmth towards foreigners.
It's not because Americans don't like foreigners.
It's more...
because we're very accustomed to foreigners in our cities.
I'm talking about places like LA, New York, Miami, places that you probably think about visiting.
And the other part of this point is that if you go and live in the US and you're from Brazil, for example, and you are going to stay there.
long time you are probably going to make other Brazilian friends there.
This happens all the time to almost everyone.
So this is a very common situation and you're going to compare your relationships with those Brazilians to your relationships with Americans and it's not a fair comparison because the
Americans around you are in their home country.
This is just their normal routine Versus the Brazilians around you are also foreigners living in a foreign country and who are probably very interested in making friends because They probably feel alone there.
So you probably notice that it's extremely easy to make friends with other Brazilians in the U
because those Brazilians are in the same boat as you.
And you're in the same boat.
This means that you're in the same situation.
I also experienced this in Mexico when I would go to these meet-up groups where there were other Americans living there.
It was very easy to talk to these Americans and they were
friendly and they wanted to make friends with me and that's not necessarily the case when I'm in the US.
That was just the case because we were all Americans living in a foreign country and we were all in that situation and wanted to meet other people in that situation to make friends with them.
So you get what I'm saying.
You go to the US and you come back.
hair your relationships with other foreigners who are living there with your relationships with Americans, it's not a fair comparison because of course the foreigners are going to be like desperate for friendships.
They want to have that familiarity and meet people from their own country and have that support group there.
So that really affects
If you want my help to actually pronounce English words and sentences more naturally, then I recommend that you use the training found in my membership.
You can become a listening time super member or any of the higher tiers, the higher levels, and you'll get my pronunciation training every month.
So you have that and then of course the advanced episodes are available.
people's idea of how friendly the locals are versus other foreigners that they've made friends with when they live in the US.
I hope you get that point because that's an extremely important point that people overlook.
And in general, what do I think about just the average American living in the US?
Well, if I can...
to prepare us to people from all of the other countries where I've had students from, I would say that Americans are kind of average maybe when it comes to friendliness.
And I say this because in some aspects, Americans seem really friendly and in other aspects they don't.
So, for example, Americans are very polite.
In general, in public, with strangers, Americans tend to be very polite and people often like this and they might even associate this with friendliness, especially if strangers are asking you, how are you?
How was your day when you're at the grocery store or the bank or whatever?
For some people, that seems like genuine friendly.
and I think oftentimes it is.
It's not that everyone is faking this just because they have to do this or else they'll get fired.
No, trust me.
You can go to many many places here where the people working there are not friendly and they don't ask you these questions.
However, there are many many places where people do
you really nice and in a friendly way even when you don't really know them.
So I think that's kind of a form of friendliness.
Some people might say that that's more being polite, but I think it goes beyond that because a great example of this is when you fly on an airplane in the US, it's very common for strangers to prices, who are both...
Americans to talk to each other.
They're sitting next to each other on the plane.
For a lot of you, that probably seems crazy, but this is really common in the US.
I've had this happen to me multiple times, even when I'm not trying to talk to the person.
The person will often force a conversation on me.
And it's like overly friendly.
That type of...
behavior.
So it's not just, oh this person has a job working as a cashier and they have to be friendly.
No, even just strangers on an airplane will often talk to you, ask you about your life.
They'll say a lot of things and open up about themselves often.
When you open up about something, this means that you...
talk openly about a certain subject, maybe a deep subject or a hard subject, for example.
So there's a lot of friendliness when it comes to people that you don't know, let's say, and Americans are also extremely neighborly.
I talked about this before, Americans, in general, value their...
and say relationship with their neighbors more so than many other countries because people here really respect space and property and so they kind of work together with their neighbors keep their neighborhood safe clean and they kind of work together as a team to try to keep all the things in order in that.
neighborhood and at least when I was growing up it was common to make friends with your neighbors, your neighbors would often come bring you a cake or cookies when you first moved into that house.
So I think Americans are very neighborly.
So in those respects, Americans are friendly.
However, I will
for listening time, family members too.
And you can also listen to my US Conversations podcast if you're ready to start practicing with two people talk, Yi and another native English speaker.
This is great practice for you listening and this will help you reach the next step, the next level in your English learning journey.
So the links for both of those are down below.
acknowledge that Americans might not be the friendliest in terms of just overall warmth when it comes to talking to people and how quickly they might invite you to go to their house welcome you into their house and that's something that's really big in Latin America.
can invite other people into their house more easily.
Probably there's this phrase that people say sometimes when they start talking about their house they'll interrupt their sentence and they'll add which is also your house.
Even if they're talking to a complete stranger it's like saying, oh my house is your house.
That's a very friendly thing which we don't-
don't often say here in the US.
So that does show that Americans aren't the warmest people in every aspect.
And Americans tend to be more individualistic.
So that might affect friendliness, let's say.
However, I think that can also be an advantage because Americans are often even individualistic
when it comes to their family.
So they might choose to move away to another state far from their family and that means that they will probably make friends more easily with other people because they don't have their family with them.
This is different from let's say Latin America where it's not as common to just leave your family and move far away.
So...
people might have the tendency of just hanging out with their family more than going and making friends, let's say.
So there's two sides to that that individualism can be something that makes Americans friendlier, less friendly depending on how you look at it.
And I think that in the US we have a lot of resources that can help you make friends especially
these meet-up groups, groups that are centered around a hobby, sport, and activity, and there are tons of them where you can very easily go in McFrance versus in many other countries, this is not common.
These types of artificial groups that are meant to bring people together to McFrance, that's not nearly as common.
in most other countries.
So that's something that can make it a little bit easier for Americans to make friends.
And if you're a foreigner living in the US and you're interested in meeting up with some local people, I recommend using the website meetup.com because like I said, there are tons of groups you can join.
Go make friends.
Depend.
on your interests, your hobbies, etc.
So that's a good thing, but I think overall to give a clearer answer to this question are Americans friendly, I would just say it depends.
We're somewhere in the middle maybe when compared to other countries and I think it depends on where you're from.
your definition of friendliness.
But I would say that Americans are kind of friend.
We're average in that department.
There's my answer.
I talked a lot just to bring this to that conclusion.
Americans are average when it comes to friendliness in my opinion.
All right.
I hope that this was an interesting episode for you.
And I hope it kind of helps you.
see things from a different angle maybe and see why you might feel that Americans are friendly not friendly and if this interests you I highly recommend that you listen to my US conversations podcast because you'll be able to listen to other Americans talking to me and you can see our interaction together maybe get a better steal from the people of the US
Let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about this question about whether or not Americans are.
And when I use the word Americans, I'm referring to people from the United States.
I've talked about this topic before.
I know that many people would consider themselves.
Americans who are not from the US and that's perfectly fine, but I don't have another word to use to describe people from the US.
We don't say USE's or United StatesE's.
Okay, the proper term for this is Americans.
So that's what I'm referring to.
Okay, so our Americans friendly.
Well, I have had a lot...
of experience as a teacher, talking to people from all around the world, over 80 different countries.
So I have been able to talk about this topic with a number of people from different backgrounds, from different countries.
And I would usually hear a couple different opinions that sometimes contradicted each other.
And it usually depended on where the student was from.
So some people would tell me that Americans are super friendly or overly friendly.
Like it's almost annoying for them.
And they always look happy and they're always smiling.
And like I said, that could even be strange for some foreigners.
And...
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 177 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're doing great and that your English learning is going well.
And in today's episode, we're going to talk about a very important topic in my opinion, which is being content.
Now being content right now in the present instead of just waiting for the future, waiting for something to happen in order to be content.
I think that this is a very important topic because if we can understand this and really believe that we can be content right now, then...
So someone might say, when I get that job, when I get that job that I've been wanting, then I'll be happy.
Or when I get a raise, my boss decides to pay me more, then I'll be content.
Or once I finish my studies, then I'll be happy.
Or whatever you could think of a million things people might say.
and think this way, right?
So for me, I've had a lot of times in my life when I wasn't really completely content in that moment because I wanted this other thing to happen in the future and I thought that when that thing happens, then I'll be.
100% contained and that just never really happens.
I'll give you some examples of that.
So when I was a teenager, especially when I was About 17 years old or so.
I was really looking forward to having my Independence as an adult and I really just didn't enjoy my last year of high school that much
because I just thought that when I became an adult independent, then I would be really happy because I wasn't that content with my life, my last year of high school, and I just spent so much time looking forward to my adult life thinking about it, planning for it, and then I became an adult and...
things didn't just magically become perfect and my life was still full of issues and problems and I didn't suddenly become super happy when I became an adult.
I also kind of had this feeling before I moved to Mexico.
I was in college and I really didn't want to be in college.
I was just waiting to graduate and I really wanted to move to Mexico.
And I just had that idea in my mind that when I move, then everything's going to be much better.
I'm going to be much happier.
I won't be in this college anymore.
And yeah, it was great to move to Mexico.
But again, I didn't...
magically just become super happy and content with everything.
That didn't happen.
And then the same thing happened with moving to the U.S.
When my wife and I were dealing with her integration process, that was awful.
It was terrible.
And we were just looking forward to the day when it would be over.
And I remember the day that she
got permanent residence card.
I was so happy, I was so glad.
And then afterwards, I kind of just continued on with my life and my problems and everything else just continued in the US.
And I didn't magically become a hundred percent content and happy just because the immigration process was over and he-ją
were in US.
And even my most recent example of this, you know, the fact that now I can make this content for English learners and have this be my career.
Before I really wanted to have success with this so that I could focus 100% of my effort on this.
And I thought that when...
I reached this point when I could just do this and not need to do other things to earn a living that that would be perfect, amazing.
I thought that that was such an amazing idea in my mind.
And yes, I'm very happy with what I do nowadays in the fact that...
That can definitely change our lives.
And the reason why I wanted to talk about this topic in particular is because I think that many people face this issue myself included where we look forward to some future point when something will happen, we believe.
Making all of this content Helping people with my podcast YouTube channel.
I'm really happy that this can pay my bills and this is my job now Really thankful for that but I Still have a life with problems and issues and other things that Haven't gone away Know I've achieved this goal.
So what am I saying?
with all of these examples.
Well, we have this tendency, a lot of the time, to think that when we achieve this certain goal, problems and issues that we have now won't be there at that time, or they'll be there, but it won't matter because you'll have achieved that other goal that will really help you.
be content.
And this just never happens.
It's not something that I think ever happens like that.
I think that this is a big deception.
I think that we deceive ourselves into thinking that we'll be happy when these specific good things happen.
We'll be content when we reach
certain milestones or these goals and it's a deception because we sometimes reach these goals, achieve these things and then things continue on and you're still not perfectly content and then you just look forward to the next thing.
It's like for...
The business example of like, you know, if you have your own business and your first goal is that you want your business to Pay your bills for you and then you achieve that goal, but then now you're not satisfied with You know how much money your business is making you and now you think oh no when I have this amount of Revenue then I'll be happy and then you reach that amount and then
You do the same thing.
Say, no, when I reach this amount, and you just keep pushing this goal back and you don't ever feel content with what you have now or where you are now.
And I think that's a big problem.
I don't think that we should deceive ourselves into thinking that contentment will come when
reach a certain milestone, a certain goal, achieve a certain thing.
Those things are good, but that's not what will ultimately make us happy forever more.
No, it doesn't work like that.
And so what are some things that we can do?
What are some things that I've tried to do to not have this tendency?
Because just like many of you I've dealt with this issue.
Like I mentioned.
So now I'm fully aware of this deception and I try my best not to fall into this trap of not being content with things now and thinking that I'll be more content later.
I'm trying not to fall into this trap.
So here are some of the things that I'm trying to do.
So number one, this is an obvious one.
I try to just be really thankful and I thank God for what I have right now.
I do this all the time.
This is really important in my opinion.
I should always...
Just remind yourself of everything you have now and be thankful for these things.
So I thank God for everything I have right now and when I go through the list of all the blessings I have, it's overwhelming and I think, wow, I should be really content right now because look at everything I have.
So that...
And then after that thing happens, then we're going to be really content.
We're going to be really happy when that thing happens.
And of course, that's a good thing to look forward to things in the future and have goals that you want to accomplish that will give you satisfaction.
But we don't want to...
That definitely helps when you can just be thankful, practice gratitude.
That's an obvious one that I think we should all do.
We can all benefit from, we can benefit from practicing gratitude, being thankful for what we have.
Kind of similar to this, one thing that really helps me stay
intent not start to fall into that bad tendency is I specifically take time to look back and see all the things that I was hoping for that I was waiting for in past that have now happened that have now come to pass when something comes to pass we're saying that
It happens.
It occurs.
Okay?
So there are so many things that I hoped for, prayed for that actually happened.
And it's easy afterwards to just forget about all those things.
So I think it's important to take time, to look back and see all those things that you were really hoping.
for and waiting for that actually happened and that kind of renews that gratitude.
You feel that gratitude in a fresh way when you think back to your life before and then how you were able to get that blessing, achieve that goal or whatever.
And it's good to remind yourself of that and to remember how much you wanted it before and then you got it and Now you should be really thankful because Imagine if you never got that thing like for me for example Imagine if my wife had never got her residency in New York
I think about that sometimes and I think about just how that would have really negatively affected my life just considering the last year and a half or so that we've been here.
How things would have been so different if she hadn't gotten that residency and...
I just feel a huge sense of gratitude and I remember how much I was hoping for that, praying for that, and just taking some time to think about that really kind of makes me feel content right now.
Like, wow, I'm so fortunate.
I'm so blessed that we got through that period.
Because that was something that we really wanted really needed and it happened and I don't want to forget that I don't want to just pretend like that never happened so that's an example I can give and I'll think about My own business so to say sometimes when things are a little bit complicated or
I'm facing some problems with my business.
I stop and I remember myself two years ago, three years ago, whatever.
And I think, wow, I'm really thankful that I've reached this point, considering that I was not at this point two years ago or three years ago.
When I remind...
myself of that.
When I take the time to look back and remember that, that really helps me to feel thankful again, to feel content with what I have right now, regardless of problems and the issues that come up with, you know, everything related to being an entrepreneur or whatever.
Just being a...
feel discontent now before we've reached that goal.
I don't think we should just always assume that we're gonna be happy later when we have that thing, when we accomplish that goal, etc.
And we aren't happy now, for example.
I think it's important to be content now, be content.
able to look back and see the progress, see how I've been blessed.
That really helps put things into perspective.
It helps me just have a good attitude and be content.
And another thing that really helps me just appreciate my life, be content now instead of just thinking about the future
wanting something to happen so that I'll be happier or whatever is when I consider other people that are suffering more than me and have problems that I don't have.
I think this is like a good comparison.
A lot of times it's not healthy to compare yourself to other people but I think that this is a good...
type of comparison.
I think it's good to look at other people that have problems and issues and sufferings that you don't have so that you can appreciate your own life and hopefully it helps you have compassion on those other people and you can look at them with compassion, love and view your own life.
from a different perspective and think about how much worse things could be for you.
I think that's a good way to put it.
Imagine how much more suffering you could have right now.
How much worse your life could be.
Think about that and let that just really make you feel content with a...
what you have right now, even if it seems like you have problems or you have suffering.
I think that looking at other people's lives, things that other people are going through, that thankfully you're not going through.
Now that can really help you kind of stop complaining and it can help you be more content now.
Another thing that I think can help, that has helped me, is to have low expectations.
Of course, we want to do great things and have ambitious goals, but I think if we lower our expectations, then we aren't constantly disappointed by things that don't meet our expectations.
I think that if we don't expect much, then we can be content with little.
We don't have to receive a ton and achieve a ton in order to be content.
I think we should try to get better, achieve progress, of course.
If things don't go our way, this means that...
things go badly.
The good things don't happen to us.
If things don't go our way, then we won't be as disappointed if we already have low expectations.
So we should have ambitious goals for ourselves, but maybe we shouldn't have really high expectations for...
everything that we want to receive and We shouldn't always expect to have the best of everything because in this life there are always things that aren't going to be good that happen to us and if we expect to have some suffering expect to have some negative things happen to us then
We'll be able to endure and withstand these negative things.
When you withstand something, it means that you do it, you support it, and survive it.
So it's easier to withstand the negative things when your expectations aren't too high.
And when your expectations aren't too high.
with what we have, happy with where we are, and of course, look forward to the future, but I don't think we should really just live with this idea that it'll be better later.
Better later, I'll be happier later.
I think that we can definitely be content now.
So I want to talk a little bit about that.
then what happens is that things exceed your expectations a lot more frequently and it feels really good when you aren't expecting that much you aren't expecting to earn so much money but then you do earn more money it feels great it feels a lot better than when you feel like you deserve this high amount of money and then you don't get it
That feels awful, right?
So, that's another little tip.
And then one last thing is that I think it's important to view contentment, to view happiness as a choice, not a goal.
We have the choice to be content.
Now, even with the negative things in our lives, we can choose to be content.
Oh, yeah, don't need...
to view it as a goal that we will eventually achieve when these other good things happen.
No, we can be content right now.
If we make that choice, this is something I constantly tell myself.
Honour, you have the choice to be content.
Right now, in this situation, even if things aren't good right now, you can still choose to be content.
instead of just saying, oh, when this problem is over, then I'll be content.
No, I can choose to be content now, right?
Okay, I hope that this episode was interesting for you and that it got you thinking a little more about this idea.
You might not agree with 100% of what I said.
That's perfectly fine, but these are things that been on my mind.
I want to encourage you to use my advanced episodes if you're interested in practicing with real English spoken fast at normal speed.
You can sign up by clicking on the link down below and becoming a listening time family member.
And you can also sign up for my US Conversations podcast because that's the next step after that to be able to understand.
today and hopefully this episode will be interesting for you and if you want my pronunciation training or my listening training or you just want my advanced episodes make sure to check out my membership the link is down below if you want my technical training my specific training for your listening pronunciation and if you want my help to be able to unwind
understand native speakers better than of course check that out.
That membership will be very helpful for you.
And I also recommend that you start using my US Conversations podcast to listen to conversations that I have with other native speakers.
That should be your goal to eventually be able to understand when other people are having a conversation.
That's hard.
But this US Conversations Podcast is a great tool to help you reach that level.
So if you're interested in that, the link is also down below.
And you have the link to the transcript for this episode down below as well.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk.
about being content now.
So what is the tendency that a lot of us have?
The tendency that a lot of us have is that we have this idea in our mind that when something happens, when this specific thing happens in the future, then I'll truly be happy or truly be content.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 183 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're doing great.
I hope that your English learning is going really well.
And I hope that this episode will give you some encouragement to continue strong with your English, because we're going to talk.
today about the benefits of learning a language.
So I wrote down some different benefits that I was able to find online and just some benefits that I have been able to see in my own life from being a language learner.
So I hope that this episode will give you some extra motivation.
When you learn a language, you kind of have to Exercise your brain in a different way.
There's really nothing else like learning a language.
There's nothing that's Exactly same or even comparable in my opinion.
I think it's a unique thing to learn.
It's not like learning music.
or learning some type of hobby or skill.
I think learning a language is a very unique exercise and I think I can see why it might make you more creative just because you kind of have to use your brain in a different way when you're learning a language.
And I'm sure when you use your brain in different ways
This can have a positive effect on creativity.
So I don't know exactly how that works.
I'm not an expert on any of this, but I think it kind of makes sense.
And another benefit that learning a language might have on your brain is that it can possibly strengthen your problem solving skills.
think this one is a little more apparent or obvious because when you learn a language you really exercise the problem solving part of your brain I think when you're trying to understand a sentence that is unfamiliar to you.
You kind of have to solve this problem.
You have to solve the problem.
of this unknown sentence and you have to try to make sense of this sentence.
I think this happens a lot in language learning where you hear a sentence that you don't immediately understand, but then you think about it and analyze it and then after a few seconds you get it and you say
Oh, now I understand what that meant.
And I think that that's problem solving, right?
Your brain is trying to solve that mystery.
So I can definitely see how learning a language can strengthen your problem solving skills.
I think that that one is a little more obvious to me.
And another benefit that you might get from learning a language.
is that it might increase your ability to concentrate.
This is an interesting one.
So, I guess learning a language requires a lot of focus.
It really engages your concentration because when you're reading something or when you're listening to something in a foreign language, you have...
to be more focused than if you listen to something or read something in your native language, right?
If you're interacting in a foreign language and someone says something to you in a foreign language, if you're not paying full attention, you might not understand them.
You might miss a few words or something like that.
So you really have to be focused.
I'm sure that you know this.
I'm sure that when you try to listen to native English speakers speak fast or when you use my advanced episode or my US Conversations podcast, I'm sure you have to pay attention.
Right, you have to be focused.
And so this makes sense that a benefit of learning a lot.
language can be that your brain is able to concentrate better, to focus better.
So that's pretty cool.
And another benefit might be that learning a language increases your ability to multitask.
This is one that I had never thought of before.
I guess this might have something to do with the fact that...
to continue on with your English learning, or continue learning any other language that you're currently studying right now.
So, I'm sure that this episode will be relevant and interesting to all of you.
And as always, I want to encourage you to start using my advanced episodes.
You'll need to eventually use native level content.
that when you speak multiple languages you often switch between the two languages.
You go back and forth between Spanish and English or Portuguese and Spanish or whatever and that switching between languages might help you become a better multitasker in other areas of your life.
Maybe you can...
go back and forth between two different activities more easily.
I don't know about this one, but I read this, I think, on a couple different websites, so I wanted to include this one.
I thought that this was also pretty cool.
And then in general, talking about brain health and the way that your brain ages, I think that many people...
would agree that learning a language can possibly help your brain age better.
When I say age better, I'm saying as it gets older, it doesn't decline as much.
Right?
If you say that someone has aged very well, that means that they look good, even though they've gotten older.
Right?
So, this is probably the most interesting brain benefit for me.
I think that it would be really cool if the language learning that I've done could help me, help my brain actually be healthier in my old age.
So, there is some evidence.
that learning a language can possibly slow down cognitive decline.
That's really cool.
So it might slow down the processes that be two different dimensions and other brain-related issues.
That sounds like a great benefit.
I don't know all the details of that.
I haven't read the studies, but I know that there is some evidence that...
suggests.
So that's great.
And another thing that might happen is that learning a language might improve your episodic memory.
So your memory of specific events in the past.
And I think that I saw a study about this with older adults how language learning helped
this specific type of memory, it helped improve it.
So, that's also really cool.
So, as you can see, there are a lot of different possible benefits related to your brain, in terms of learning a language.
But, there are other benefits, the signs, just the brain benefits.
I think one of the most obvious ones is that...
learning a language can help your career and I'm sure many of you are listening to this podcast episode right now because you Want to learn English for your career For your work for some opportunity.
I'm sure many of you are doing that and so if you speak before in language This can help you work for foreign companies
of course.
And I've had many students in the past that have learned English and it has allowed them to get a job with a company from the US or Europe and they were able to earn their salary in dollars or in euros and then.
spend in their local currency.
So this made them rich almost in their countries.
So I've talked to many people who have a really great quality of life in their country because they were able to get a job with a foreign company.
And that's...
if you want to be able to understand native speakers when they speak fast.
So that's what my advanced episodes are for.
They help get your ears accustomed to real English spoken fast.
Of course, you have the transcript for all of those episodes.
So the link to sign up is down below.
And you can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast.
So you can practice listening to...
because they learned English.
So of course that's a big benefit.
Learning a language can give you opportunities abroad.
Maybe your company can send you to another country to work.
That could be really cool.
Learning a language can also help you work with foreign clients.
And maybe you own your own business.
and speaking English or another foreign language might give you the opportunity to work with clients that don't speak your language.
So you can expand your business like that.
And then also if you speak English in particular, if you learn this language, this can help you.
communicate with international co-workers.
You can talk to other people and your company that are based in different countries because a lot of them probably speak English as well.
So there are plenty of benefits for your career and then I thought of some other benefits.
These ones are not career-related.
or brain-related exactly, but I think that they're still very important.
I think that learning a foreign language improves your knowledge of your own language.
This has definitely happened to me.
So when you learn a foreign language, specifically as an adult, it really helps you analyze.
your native language, you can better understand the grammar of your own language when you learn the grammar of another language.
You can see the differences, you can compare the two and contrast them.
When you contrast two things, it means that you compare them to show their differences.
So you can contrast the grammar in your language.
and the grammar in the language that you're learning.
And it might also help improve your vocabulary in your native language.
This has happened to me.
There are words in English that I didn't really know the meaning of before, but in Spanish or in French, for example, there is that same word.
Maybe it looks...
a little different, but it's a word that is much more commonly used in Spanish for French and then because I had to learn it in Spanish or in French, it also taught me the definition of that word in English.
So your vocabulary, your native language can also improve by learning a foreign language.
So overall, if you learn a language...
language, I think that your native language is going to improve.
You're going to have a better understanding of your own language.
So I like that, Ben Sit.
And learning a foreign language helps you communicate better overall.
It makes you more conscious of language in general.
People that haven't learned foreign language, they...
might not think so much about the language that they're using.
They might not be as conscious of different linguistic related things.
And so I think that this is something that I've seen in my own life after becoming a language learner.
I'm just more conscious of certain things in the words I'm using.
the sentences I'm saying.
And I think more specifically, it's really helped me talk more effectively to non-native speakers of my own language.
So it's helped me talk more effectively to people who are learning English or people who speak English but aren't native speakers.
So I know what...
two people having a conversation in English at enormous speed.
Eventually, you'll need to be able to do that if you want to reach a high level in English, of course.
So that's why I created that podcast to help you practice with that.
A link to sign up to that is also down below.
And remember to give this podcast a five star rating and write a review if you can.
All right, let's.
types of words and phrases and expressions might be harder for them to understand.
So I don't use all of those hard words and phrases and expressions when I'm talking to them.
I try to find simpler ways to say the same thing.
I'm going to do a whole advanced episode on this.
I think I don't remember when it's going to be released, but I'm going to talk about this because this is something that I find very important.
I think that it's important to try to help non-native speakers of your language.
Understand you.
It's good to adjust your speech to help them out if you can.
So I'll talk.
about that in that advanced episode.
And one other benefit that I wanted to mention of learning a foreign language is that it can boost your self-esteem when you learn a language and you feel like you've reached a pretty good level in that language.
You feel competent, right?
You feel like you've accomplished something.
You have this new skill.
You can imagine that the more skills that you have, the more self-confidence you probably have.
Right?
So if you don't have any skills, you probably lack some confidence because you don't feel like you can do that much.
But when you have these different skills, you feel...
more capable of doing different things.
So this can really boost your self-esteem.
And this is also related to travel, for example, like you can travel to a foreign country and speak English there and be understood and understand the other people.
That can feel really good boost your confidence.
when you can travel with ease.
When you do something with ease, this means that you do it in an easy way, in a comfortable way.
Okay, so that can definitely boost your self-esteem when you feel competent to travel and speak a foreign language and understand it.
That can definitely make you feel pretty good.
And I also think that learning a...
foreign language and being able to speak it is kind of like learning to play an instrument in the sense that when you have this skill people are impressed.
For example, if people hear you play the piano well, they probably instantly have a better image of you.
They think of you even.
more positively than they did before because they see that you have this talent or this skill and they admire that.
The same goes for speaking foreign languages.
When people hear you speak foreign language, they're often very impressed and they congratulate you on the
able to do that.
I don't think that this is the best reason to learn a foreign language.
I think you should do it for your own benefit, not to impress others.
But of course, many people would see this as a benefit, being able to impress others with their foreign language skills.
Again, not...
the most important one, but I wanted to include it as well.
Alright, so I'll stop there, but I'm sure there are tons of other benefits that you might be able to think of, but really I hope that this gives you more motivation to continue on with your English learning, and I hope it motivates you to also use my advanced podcast episodes and my US conversations.
start.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about some different benefits of learning a language.
You're learning English right now and maybe another language.
So what added benefits might you get besides just learning the language.
What other benefits might you see?
podcast to take your English to the next level to start to understand native English spoken fast.
This is something that you'll need to be able to do eventually and you can use these resources to make this a little more accessible to you because I provide the transcript for you.
So this is something that really helped you out.
Well, let's start with the brain benefits.
Okay?
So, this is something that a lot of people are very interested in.
They want to know if learning a language helps their brain or not.
And I think it does.
There have been different studies that have looked at different benefits that language learning has on the brain.
So, let's start with the brain.
And I'm not an expert on this and I can't tell you 100% that language learning will help your brain in these different ways.
But I think that studies have shown that it's possible that it's likely that learning a language can have some different benefits for your brain.
So one benefit is increased creativity.
So this is pretty interesting.
It's probably not something that people would think of.
But I think that studies have suggested that learning a foreign language helps your brain be more creative.
By the way, when we say that studies suggest something, we're saying...
that these studies point to this conclusion, but maybe not with 100% certainty.
Okay, it looks like this is the conclusion.
So, studies suggest that you become more creative, or you can possibly become more creative by learning a language.
And I guess this makes sense because...
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 133 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing excellent and I want to wish you a Merry Christmas around this time when this episode is released.
I think Christmas will be in about a week.
If I'm not mistaken, and that's actually the topic of today's episode.
We're going to talk about Christmas, and specifically what Christmas is like in the US.
I'm sure that a lot of you are interested in this topic.
This is a really big deal in the US.
The Christmas season is really...
obviously.
However, it's also a really big holiday for other people and for other reasons as well.
And we have a whole season around Christmas.
There's the Christmas season.
So the whole month of December is special in the US.
This month feels different.
It looks different.
It sounds different.
You can tell that it's the Christmas season.
Anytime in December.
And I'll talk a little more about that in just a minute.
But yeah, we have a whole season around Christmas.
That's how significant this holiday is.
And of course, it's a really big family holiday.
Usually...
This is a day when you get together with your family and you eat together and you have this time as a family.
Like Thanksgiving, Thanksgiving also has that aspect as well.
But Christmas does too, and for me Christmas has more of that.
And it's on another level.
Christmas is really significant for its family aspect as well.
And we have a Christmas culture, I would call it.
In the US we have a whole culture that is related to this holiday.
So there are a lot of things that are specific to Christmas
that suddenly appear around this time year.
And a lot of things become different, and people do different things that even act differently sometimes around this season.
So there's a whole separate culture when it comes to Christians.
So let me talk a little bit about that.
So during the Christmas season,
What happens?
Well, first of all, let me talk about when this season is.
So I think that technically, the Christmas season starts right after Thanksgiving.
For some people, the Christmas season starts even earlier.
They already get in the Christmas spirit earlier on in the year.
However, I think that
For most people, after Thanksgiving, it's Christmas time.
It's the Christmas season.
So this starts at the end of November, of course, and then it continues on through December.
So we have multiple weeks.
We have a full month where everything deals deals like Christmas this season.
season is in full swing.
In English, when we say that something is in full swing, we're saying that you are now in this period, you are in this season.
It is happening now completely.
So by the time December comes, the Christmas season is in full swing and you start to see.
see this Christmas culture all around you.
So there is the visual aspect of this Christmas season.
So of course the decorations are a big part of this and Christmas decorations usually come up after Thanksgiving and they're taken down in January.
Usually
at the beginning of January.
That's usually when you'll see these decorations.
However, sometimes you'll see them even earlier than that, and you'll see them stay up even later than the beginning of January.
But usually most people have their decorations up throughout the month of December.
Throughout that whole month.
important and it's very unique in this country.
So I'm happy to talk about that today.
I'm sure I've mentioned certain aspects about Christmas in other episodes, but I wanted to do a full episode dedicated to this topic today.
So hopefully it will be interesting and educational for you.
And we have some special areas throughout our cities, where we have really, really cool Christmas decorations and Christmas lights.
So if you visit the US during the month of December and you're in a big city, there will probably be multiple neighborhoods where the whole neighborhood...
has really incredible Christmas decorations and each neighborhood that does this has a different nickname a name for itself so the name might be candy cane lane or starlight circle or something like that and people will go from different parts of the city to
see this neighborhood and see all of the decorations and the lights there.
This is a really cool tradition that we have in the US during the month of December.
I'm excited to take my family to see some of these neighborhoods this season.
And they sometimes sell things in these neighborhoods at night when a lot of...
people are walking through the neighborhood.
They might sell hot chocolate or cookies or other snacks.
It's a whole experience when you do this.
So that's a really cool thing.
And there's also the audio aspect of the Christmas season.
I talked about the visual aspect, but there's also the
audio aspect because there is Christmas music everywhere.
Everywhere you turn, you hear Christmas music.
By the way, when we say everywhere you turn, we just mean everywhere you go, everywhere you look, everywhere around you.
So everywhere you turn, there's Christmas music playing where you walk.
into a store.
If they have music at that store, chances are it's Christmas music.
And we have a whole genre of music here called Christmas music.
Musical artists release Christmas albums specifically for this season.
So there is a whole genre dedicated.
to Christmas music.
So that's something that you'll hear everywhere.
Everywhere you go, you hear Christmas music.
So it sounds like Christmas during this month.
And people watch Christmas movies.
This is a genre of movies here in the US.
We have Christmas movies.
There are tons and tons.
of Christmas movies and some families have the tradition of watching the same Christmas movie or the same Christmas movies every year and they've already seen those movies 20 times but they continue to watch them every year because it's the tradition during Christmas season.
My sister...
does this I think she watches a lot of Christmas movies and rewatches them every year.
I don't really do this but when I was a kid there were a couple Christmas movies that I really liked and I watched them year after year so I participated in that a little bit when I was younger.
And there are Christmas cards that you see in people's houses.
A Christmas card is a card that you make by taking a picture, oftentimes with a professional photographer, not always, but sometimes you take a picture during this season with you and your family.
And before we start, remember that if you need my help to understand native speakers when they speak fast, then make sure to join my membership so you can access my listening practice seminars, where I help you understand the real sounds of English when people speak at novel speed.
So the link is down below in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash.
family and then you create these Christmas cards and you send these Christmas cards to your friends and your family members.
And some people write something on these Christmas cards.
Some people write things about what each person in their family has done this year.
They give you...
and update on the life of the different family members.
Some people do that with these cards, but other people just put the names of each person on the card, or maybe they just put the last name of the family, but the picture is the most important part and people will put these Christmas cards.
on their refrigerator.
They'll use a magnet to stick these cards from different people on their refrigerator or somewhere else in the house sometimes.
And so you can see the pictures of all their different friends and family members there on the fridge.
So that's something that's really...
big here in the US, but I don't think that's big thing in other countries, but that's another thing that happens during the Christmas season.
And of course, there's the food, I haven't mentioned that, but the food during the Christmas season is very particular to Christmas.
So there are a lot of different types of...
foods that we only eat during Christmas or during Thanksgiving.
And there are a lot of flavors that change during this season.
So certain foods or drinks will have holiday flavor is Christmas flavors during November and December.
You'll see a lot of flavors that incorporate
certain fruits or other things that are related to this season.
And there are certain drinks, especially that are like holiday drinks, like eggnog, for example.
That's something that you buy during the Christmas season, but not at any other time during the year.
So that aspect, the food...
and drinks that changes and that becomes Christmassy during this time.
And one other thing that also changes is there's something that we might call Christmas cheer.
So cheer refers to happiness being bright and hopeful and happy and smiley.
This is cheer.
So during this season, people might seem a little bit more cheerful in public.
People will greet you or they will say goodbye to you with a merry Christmas or something like that.
And you can sometimes feel like people have this cheer.
and are a little bit nicer during this time of year.
And so that's a good thing as well.
That's something nice regarding the Christmas season.
So as you can see during the Christmas season, you feel Christmas everywhere.
You feel it all around you.
Right?
And talking specifically about the days, December 24th.
and December 25th.
I also wanted to mention that in the US Christmas is December 25th.
Christmas Eve is what we call December 24th.
However Christmas Day December 25th, this is the day.
This is the most important day.
The 24th is also very important.
listening time.
And of course if you want my US Conversations podcast where I speak to other native speakers from around the country then make sure to sign up for that podcast.
The link is also down below.
That's patreon.com slash US Conversations.
And if you like this podcast please share it with any other English learners that you.
However, Christmas is December 25th.
In other countries, December 24th is the important day, and then the 25th isn't quite that important.
However, in the US, it's not like this.
People don't usually stay up all night on December 24th, and have this big party into the early hour.
of the morning and then go to bed really really late.
That's not the traditional custom in the US.
Some people might do that but that's not what's most common I think.
Most people really enjoy Christmas Eve and many people celebrate on that day.
However, they probably go to bed.
at a normal time and kids usually go to bed fairly early and then people wake up early on Christmas morning on December 25th.
Kids especially love waking up really early on Christmas day and going to open their presents.
That's a really big tradition in the US.
So...
December 24th and December 25th are both really important.
However, the 25th is Christmas.
That is the day.
That's Christmas for us.
So, I also just wanted to mention that.
And one other thing I wanted to mention is the weather.
So, if you live in a place in the US that has four seasons.
that has a real winter, people often hope for a white Christmas.
When we say a white Christmas, we're talking about a Christmas when it snows.
There's snow on the ground and it's white.
So people really like this in the US because the snow makes it feel like Christmas.
I don't live in a city where it snows, so this doesn't exist here, but in other places, this is something that people really like, and Christmas feels like a holiday where you're supposed to be inside a warm with your family, oftentimes with a fire in the fireplace.
place is the part of your house where you can light fire and then the smoke goes up through the chimney and in the US many people live in houses versus apartments.
Of course a lot of people live in apartments too but here many many people live in houses more than people in a lot of other countries.
so here
It's common to have a fireplace and you can light a fire and feel warm and cozy by the fire with your family, drinking a warm drink like hot chocolate or something and enjoy that atmosphere, that nice environment and see the snow outside.
I really love that.
US.
Again, I don't have that because I live in Southern California, but that's kind of the romantic image of Christmas that a lot of people have.
So that's Christmas in the US.
There are many other things that I didn't mention, but I wanted to give you a feel for this season and the Christmas culture.
that we have.
And I love Christmas.
It's my favorite holiday.
And for me, it's the only thing I like about the winter season.
Because I don't like the winter.
It's too cold for me.
The days are too short.
I like the sun.
I like being outside.
I like the warm weather.
So Christmas is the only thing that I really look forward to.
know and please give it a 5 star rating and writer of you.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about Christmas in the US.
First of all, I want to mention that Christmas is usually considered by most people to be the most important holiday.
in the winter.
It's okay if it's a little bit colder, darker because we have all the decorations and lights and the Christmas atmosphere.
However, when Christmas is over, then I want it to be spring or summer again.
But I love Christmas and I'm looking forward to Christmas this year.
Okay, that's it for today.
I hope you enjoyed this episode.
Remember that if you need my help, understanding native speakers when they speak fast, make sure to join my membership so you can get my listening training.
The link is down below.
That's patreon.com slash listen time.
And you can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast.
The link is also down below.
That's patreon.com slash US Conversations.
And if you like this podcast.
in the US.
I already mentioned this in the episode about Thanksgiving, but I want to repeat it here today.
Thanksgiving is not the most important holiday in the US, but for some reason a lot of people from other countries think this.
They think that Thanksgiving is the most important holiday.
here, but most people would consider Christmas to be the most important holiday.
So there are a lot of reasons for this.
Of course, at the heart of Christmas is the religious aspect of the holiday, the reason why Christmas exists, right?
It's to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ, right?
in the U.S. will really value Christmas because it's the celebration of the birth of our Lord and Savior.
Right?
There's a huge reason to celebrate if you're a Christian.
But even if you're not religious, this holiday is probably still the most important one throughout the year because it's become a holiday.
that most people celebrate whether or not they regard the religious aspect of it.
So it's still big just in society beyond just the religious population.
So there is the religious significance, the reason for the holiday.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 150 of the Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
I'm happy that I made it another 50 episodes.
Thank you all for listening and supporting me.
I'm happy to have reached episode 150 and
And for this episode, I want to do something a little special.
I'm going to talk about how I learned Spanish.
This episode will go into detail about my life, really.
You'll learn about me and my process of learning Spanish and how that is also related to my heritage.
There are some really important principles that we can all learn from our experience that will help all of us as language learners, I believe.
So let me give you some background information.
I learned a very, very small amount of Spanish when I was five years old, when I was in kindergarten.
And that's because I...
I had a couple after school Spanish classes, but I think I only learned how to count to ten if I'm not mistaken.
And I think I learned a few words and a few phrases, but I stopped after a couple of classes.
And I didn't see any Spanish.
I had no experience.
to Spanish again until I was in high school.
So in high school I took two years of Spanish which is what most people do.
They take two years of foreign language in high school in the US.
It might be different now.
I'm not sure but when I was in school that was what almost everyone did.
Some people took more years if they wanted to and of course people can choose Other languages as well, but most people in the US choose Spanish because it's the most relevant and useful for us in the US So I took two years of Spanish in high school when I was 14 15 years old and
And I learned just a little bit like most of us in public school language classes.
And I learned some grammar rules.
I learned a little bit of vocabulary.
And of course I couldn't speak or understand after those classes.
And when they were done, I...
forgot almost everything.
It was almost a waste of time.
However, I think I mentioned this in a bonus episode.
If I'm not mistaken or an advanced episode, I don't remember.
But there was one thing that I did take from those classes that was useful.
And that is that I learned the concept of verb conjugation.
in those classes.
Verb conjugation just refers to changing the form of the verb based on the subject.
So for example, I walk, he walks like that.
So in English we have that, but it's simpler in Spanish.
Verb conjugation is more complex and it's...
something that a lot of people have trouble with when they first start learning Spanish.
So that idea of verb conjugation and a couple other ideas, a couple other concepts stayed with me after I finished those classes.
But besides those few things that stayed with me, it was basically a waste of time.
I didn't learn the language of course, and I wasn't interested at all in language learning or in Spanish, to be honest.
And so I didn't do any type of language learning after that until I was about 18 years old, 18 or 19, I think 19 actually.
And that's because I was in community college doing my first two years.
University and I was going to transfer to another University to do my third and fourth years after that but one of the requirements in order to transfer was that I needed to have already taken an intermediate course in some language, some foreign language, so of course I chose Spanish and
So this one will be a little bit personal, but very beneficial because I think you can learn a lot from my experience learning Spanish.
And I also want to make an interesting announcement.
Most of you won't be interested in this, but I want to mention it because sometimes people ask me about...
And I needed to prepare myself to take the intermediate courses in Spanish.
And so what I decided to do was I decided to go to Mexico for five weeks and be in a language school and study Spanish for five hours a day Monday to Friday for those five weeks.
So I went to Wadala Haram, Mexico and I stayed with an elderly couple, a Mexican couple, who hosted me there.
And I went to school there at that language school and I learned for about five hours a day.
And it was a really fun experience.
Of course, everything else that I did.
outside of the language school was even more exciting of course but I also liked that language school and I liked the program that I did the fact that I stayed with that Mexican couple and I learned a lot during those five weeks it was great to do those classes however it was not nearly enough free
in terms of becoming good at Spanish.
So I learned a lot, but it only got me to a level in which I could have basic conversations.
I could kind of understand other people if they spoke slowly to me, and it was just one person taught.
So obviously I didn't reach a high level after those classes, of course.
However, they were helpful, but the best thing about that school was that they had a conversation class after the normal classes.
And in that conversation class, the locals who are at that school learning.
English because there are many people learning English at that school.
Mexicans who live there.
During that conversation class, those locals can go and then the foreigners who are learning Spanish at that school can also go and we do an exchange between the locals and foreigners where 30 minutes we speak Spanish.
minutes we speak English.
I'm speaking in the present tense.
I think they still do this.
Maybe they don't, but that's what we did in the past at least at that school.
And this is actually how I met my future wife.
So my wife was at that school learning English, I was there learning Spanish and we met on the first day.
After this conversation class, we met and then we spent pretty much every day together for the next five weeks, except for weekends.
And by the end of those five weeks, we decided to pursue a relationship.
We can say pursue a relationship to mean that you are starting an...
and committing yourselves to that relationship.
So we decided to pursue a relationship together and continue in a long distance relationship after that.
Because of course I went back to the US and she lived in Mexico.
And when I met her, I couldn't speak well and I couldn't understand well in terms of Spanish.
obviously.
And I made the decision that I wanted to learn Spanish because I was serious about my relationship with my future wife.
She was my girlfriend at that point.
And so I told her to only talk to me in Spanish 100% of the time.
And I was only going to talk in Spanish as well.
similar podcasts, podcasts like this one, but for other languages like French or Portuguese or Spanish, and I want to tell you all that my wife has just started a podcast for Spanish.
It's very similar to this podcast, the Listening Time podcast, but of course it's very similar to this one.
Thank you.
And so when I went back to the US, we talked pretty much every day on the phone or on Skype or something for about an hour a day on average, I would say.
After I was done with school and she was done with school in the evening, we would talk and we would talk in Spanish every day.
And we talked about the normal things that people talk about when they're in a relationship with someone else.
So we just kind of talked about life.
We got to know each other better and just talked about everything, really.
And every time that I needed her to repeat something because I couldn't understand her, I interrupted her and said, stop.
I didn't understand that.
And she would repeat what she said or explain it to me or translate it sometimes.
And I did this every single time I didn't understand her.
I stopped her, interrupted her, and she explained it to me.
So she was really patient with me.
And we did this every day, basically.
We talked.
I interrupted her.
her, she repeated or explained things to me.
So I got a lot of very interesting Spanish practice because I was talking to my girlfriend at that time who I eventually wanted to marry.
And so I really wanted to know what she was saying.
I really wanted to communicate well with her and so.
I had a ton of motivation to learn the language.
And so we did this every day.
I had a lot of motivation.
And so after about six months from the time that I started that language school, about six months after that, I was able to have very comfortable conversations with her fluent conversations, really.
Obviously, I made a lot of mistakes still, but I was able to talk very comfortably and have a relationship with this person in this foreign language.
And I would say that probably around nine months after I did that language course, I could speak really well with her.
And I sounded fluent to anyone else that just heard me talk.
on the phone.
I sounded like a completely flumed Spanish speaker.
So that was great and we were in a long-distance relationship for three years before we finally got married and then I moved down to Mexico to Guadalajara.
So I had three years of practice talking to her on the phone basically every day.
So by the time I moved...
to Mexico, I was good at speaking Spanish and I understood well.
But when I moved to Mexico and I started living there, I realized that my knowledge of Spanish was completely based upon whatever my wife said because I didn't listen to anyone else speaking Spanish.
I didn't talk to anyone else.
I didn't watch TV in Spanish.
I didn't watch videos in Spanish.
I didn't listen to podcasts in Spanish.
I didn't read in Spanish.
I didn't do anything in Spanish, besides talking to my wife.
All of the Spanish that I knew was just based on the Spanish that my wife spoke.
So her words.
her phrases, her style of speaking, her slang.
That's what I knew.
And so in Mexico, even though my listening skills were good, when I talked to people other than my wife, I realized that there was a lot that I couldn't understand because they had a different style of speaking that my wife that used different.
who want to learn Spanish and who want to learn naturally by listening to a native Spanish speaker talk about different topics like I do in this podcast.
So it's very similar.
The episodes are shorter but the idea is pretty much the same.
So I'm sure that if you...
words and phrases and slang.
So it took me a little while to be able to understand other people really well because I had to learn a lot or vocabulary just living Mexico and dealing with people other than my wife.
And I also noticed that I couldn't understand people very well when I was with groups of people.
and they were all native Spanish speakers and they talked and there was a lot that I couldn't understand.
And it took me probably almost two years before I got really good at just understanding the Spanish spoken in groups of people where more than one person is talking.
I didn't have a lot of practice.
because I didn't go out with groups of friends and things like that.
However, I probably had a few hours a week of practice with more than one Spanish speaker.
So it wasn't a lot of practice every week.
And so it took me probably around two years before I reached a level at which I could understand any one.
in any situation, in groups of people, whatever.
So now I can do that, and I'm fluent, obviously, and I'm very comfortable in Spanish.
I still make a lot of mistakes, of course, because I'm not a native speaker, and I don't actively try to improve my Spanish.
So I can speak very comfortably, I can understand pretty much any situation.
but that took a while.
So that's pretty much my story with Spanish and of course it's a very unique learning experience.
However, there are a few lessons that I think we can all take away from my experience learning Spanish.
So I noted down three important lessons.
The first one is the fact that I...
never listen to or read anything in Spanish when I was learning.
And if I had done that, then the process would have been so much faster because I was really motivated and I learned a lot from my life.
And imagine if I had just done an extra hour a day of listening or reading, I would have learned so much.
I would have learned so much faster and everything would have gone more quickly.
And I would have gotten used to other people's style of speaking, not just my wife's, because if I had listened to podcasts, so whatever, then I would have heard other people's speaking Spanish and heard other slang, other phrases, things like that.
So because I didn't do this, I had to do it later, living in Mexico, talking to other people years after I started learning Spanish.
So I should have done this at the beginning and I should have continued listening, reading the whole time I was learning with my wife.
So for you, if you're listening to this podcast right now...
you're already doing the right thing.
So great job.
I didn't do this when I was learning Spanish and that caused it to go slower than it should have gone.
So that's the first lesson that you can take away from this.
The second lesson is that it's really important to challenge yourself with something harder in order to progress because for example
After that language school that I did, I challenged myself by forcing my future wife to talk to me in Spanish 100% of the time and I talked to her in Spanish.
That was a huge, huge challenge and it was much harder than my level at that time.
But...
learning Spanish, that podcast will be very helpful for you, especially if you can't understand really well yet.
So that podcast is called Sweet and Simple Spanche.
I'm going to leave the link down below.
I'll probably leave the link to the Spotify page, but you can listen to it on Apple
that challenge made me progress and reach the next level and It worked the same way when I moved to Mexico and I started getting some practice being with groups of Mexicans Because before that I Hadn't had that experience before so it was hard to Be with groups of people try to understand them
While they were talking, like I said, it took me a couple of years before I could eventually understand basically everything in those situations.
So that challenge was hard for me.
It was something above my level, but it made me reach that level eventually.
So for you, it's important to do the same thing.
You're listening to me right now.
now, but I'm speaking slowly and clearly.
So it's important for you to also challenge yourself.
For example, use my advanced podcast episodes, which I speak at normal speed.
That's what you need in order to advance.
You need to listen to things that are harder than your current level.
And you can also use my US Conversations Podcast.
Of course, that's even harder than the advanced episodes because two people are talking.
And that's very similar to my experience of how I progressed with my listening.
I had to hear more people speaking at the same time to eventually be able to understand everything in those group settings.
You don't need to use...
high content for them.
I'm just recommending it because it's made for that specific purpose, but you can just listen to normal videos, people speaking fast, and videos, podcasts of two people or three people talking.
You can listen to whatever you want, but challenge yourself in order to progress.
And lastly, the third lesson.
You can take away from this.
Is that motivation is everything.
I was extremely motivated to learn Spanish.
So even though I had a bad method, I wasn't listening or reading, I was still able to learn relatively quickly because I was so motivated to talk to my wife and understand what she was saying.
And that is the biggest key.
when it comes to language learning is your motivation.
Right now, I'm almost done with my challenge to study Italian for a short period of time.
And I was motivated at the beginning, and it was fun, but to be completely honest right now, I've lost all motivation to learn Italian, but I'm still gonna complete the challenge.
But...
I can see how big of a difference it makes when you're not motivated to learn.
I'm not motivated to learn Italian and so I'm not learning much.
Even though I'm doing it for two hours every day, I'm not seeing that much progress.
I'm not seeing as much progress as I would see if I were motivated.
So motive.
Innovation is everything.
Find your motivation for learning English or learning Spanish if you decide to check out my wife's podcast, for example.
Find your motivation and keep your motivation level up.
This makes all the difference.
Alright, that's it for today.
I hope you enjoyed hearing about my experience with Spanish and I hope you learn.
learned something from my experience.
And if you want to learn Spanish, remember to check out my Life's Podcast, Sweet and Simple Spanish.
I'll leave the link down below, so you can check that out.
And of course, you can access my advanced podcast episodes.
You can sign up.
I'll leave the link down below in the episode description.
And you can use my US Conversations Podcast to challenge you.
casts or wherever else you want to listen to it.
And hopefully if you learn Spanish, that will help you out.
So this is a very Spanish-related episode to me.
And of course, as always, I want to mention that you can get my training if you want my help with your English listening skills or pronunciation skills.
You can sign up for membership.
that's patreon.com slash listening time and you can also sign up for my other podcast if you want to practice with listening to two people talk instead of just one that's a great challenge for you if you want to reach an advanced level of listening so both of those links are down below in the description below this episode all right let's get started
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let me tell you about how I learned Spanish.
So, first of all, let me mention that the way that I learned Spanish is not the traditional way.
That someone would learn a language, and it's not easily replicable.
Something that's replicable.
is something that you can replicate.
You can copy it and do it again.
So you probably won't be able to do this with another language.
It's not the traditional way that people learn languages and it's not how I'm ever going to learn another language again.
So this was a very unique situation, but the
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 165 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great and in today's episode we're going to talk about one of the topics that people ask about most related to English.
As an English teacher, this question is probably...
one of the top three questions that I receive.
And that is how to learn phrasal verbs in English.
So if you don't know what a phrasal verb is, and I think that many of you already know these are, but a phrasal verb is a phrase with a verb and a preposition.
So for example, look up.
Right, I look...
just like the word, I don't know, illuminate.
So let's say you don't know the word illuminate and then you hear it and look it up and then now you're a little more familiar with the word illuminate that you would do the same thing with the phrase look up.
Okay, just treat it as a vocabulary phrase.
So this is it.
So
you should think of them as just normal vocabulary, and you should make sure that you're not trying to associate these phrasal verbs with each other.
So, what I mean by that is when you see a phrasal verb with the verb get, like get up, for example, you shouldn't think that that's in any way related
other phrasal verbs with the verb get, like get off or get through, for example.
So this is the big mistake that many people make with phrasal verbs.
They group them into these categories, okay, phrasal verbs with get, get up, get off, get on, get around, and they try to memorize the difference.
between the different get phrasal verbs.
And I highly recommend that you don't do that.
Different phrasal verbs that share the same verb, they're not related to each other.
And native speakers don't associate them with each other.
So just because two phrasal verbs have the same verb doesn't mean that they're related.
Okay, just get that idea out of your head and treat each phrasal verb as individual vocabulary phrase that is unrelated to any other phrasal verb.
Okay, and let me just mention that native speakers don't even know what phrasal verbs are.
If you ask native speaker about phrasal verbs, they're gonna look at you.
with confusion because they don't know what these are.
They don't even realize that they're using them.
I've explained the concept of phrasal verbs to native English speakers before and it takes them a few seconds to understand what I'm saying and then they say oh I've never realized that.
We use these phrases.
So native speakers don't even know what they are.
even though they know things like verb tenses and they might know what adjectives are or things like that.
And that's because these phrasal verbs shouldn't be viewed as like a grammar concept like prepositions and conjunctions and adjectives and phrasal verbs.
No, native speakers say these phrases without even realizing.
that they're saying two words, a verb and a preposition together with the phrase.
They just feel like they're using normal words.
So you should do the same thing.
You should just feel like you're using a normal vocabulary word when you use a phrasal verb.
And if you do this and you understand this point, then the logical conclusion is that you...
need to learn phrasal verbs just like you learn normal vocabulary.
Okay, there's no difference here.
You should treat them like you treat normal vocabulary.
You don't need to view them as this big separate topic that requires tons of explicit instruction to understand phrasal verbs.
No, just treat them.
like normal vocabulary words, but in this case there are two words or three words that are part of this whole vocabulary phrase.
So now how do you learn normal vocabulary?
Since I mentioned that you should learn these phrase of verbs, I like to learn normal vocabulary, how do you learn normal vocabulary?
Well, the most effective way my experience is to learn...
up the information.
That's a phrase of verb.
So these phrasal verbs cause English learners a lot of difficulty and one of the reasons why is because we have so many phrasal verbs in English.
Literally hundreds if not thousands of phrasal verbs.
And so there are tons of phrasal verbs.
vocabulary in context, not lists, okay?
So when you hear vocabulary words that are new for you and you hear them in context when someone is speaking or when you're reading something, this will be your introduction to that word and then you'll probably look it up and you'll probably forget it shortly after that but then you'll...
come across that same word again in the future.
And you might remember having seen it before, but you have forgotten what it means.
And then look it up again and say, oh yeah, I remember that now.
And then that will probably happen again.
And that might happen many times before you eventually learn it and it just sticks.
When we say that something sticks, those are blood muerte.
it stays in that place and doesn't go away.
So eventually it will stick.
Once you've heard it in context enough times.
Okay, it's really simple.
It isn't some crazy science behind learning words.
You just have to hear them frequently enough and with enough meaning behind them until they eventually stick.
Okay, so when it comes to phrasal verbs, you need to do the same thing, right?
You need to notice when someone says one and you don't understand it and then you look it up, you probably forget it after that, but then you'll hear it again if you're doing a good amount of listening practice and then you'll probably have to do the same thing and then...
might forget it again, but you just treat it like a normal vocabulary word.
Okay?
You don't have to study these separately.
You create lists of phrasal verbs that you go through and try to memorize.
No.
Learn them through your listening practice.
Learn them through your reading.
Okay?
And yes, there is one technical aspect of phrasal verbs.
And...
And that is that some of them are separable and some of them are inseparable, meaning that with some of them you can put the object between the two words and with some of them you can't put the object between the two words.
For example, I can say put down the weapon or put the weapon down because that phrase of verb is separable.
However, I can only say I...
ran into Mary at the store.
I can't say I ran Mary into at the store.
So that phrase of verb is inseparable.
So there is that technical aspect of phrase of verbs.
But even this technical aspect is learned through repeated exposure.
Okay.
When you hear this phrase used in context enough, eventually you'll know how to say.
separated, should it not be separated, it's just like vocabulary.
Eventually, you hear it enough and the meaning sticks and it feels natural for you to use.
So, in summary, you should learn phrasal verbs naturally through exposure, through listening, reading and and don't worry about them and create all these lists and memorize them like...
that I wouldn't recommend that because that doesn't work well for vocabulary and it doesn't work well in the sense that you're probably going to start to associate the different phrasal verbs with each other, right?
All the get phrasal verbs, all the go phrasal verbs.
And one other thing I forgot to mention is that students often ask me why do you put our way?
the word get there.
What does the word up mean?
And they try to separate the meaning of the two words, verb and the preposition.
And that's something that you need to get out of your mind immediately.
Okay, just forget the fact that it has these two words and don't separate these two words and say why does break go with down here.
and people have trouble with them because they might not have them in their own language and it's kind of a new concept and they aren't really sure how to approach phrasal verbs and how to think about them.
And so in this episode I want to give you my advice on how to learn phrasal verbs and then I'm going to tell you about how
down and not out or whatever.
Like don't do that.
Just learn the phrase as one vocabulary phrase that you don't analyze for its individual words.
Okay?
So learn phrasal verbs naturally through exposure.
I know that some people don't like this answer this advice.
They want some interesting trick or tip.
in order to learn certain things in English, but I'm just being honest here.
This is how you do.
But now, let me give you some good news, and that is that I have a plan to help you get this exposure to phrasal verbs in a natural way and to start to learn them through listening.
My plan is that I want to start to do a second podcast episode every week, but in this other episode, I want to focus on phrasal moves.
However, it's not going to be just me talking about the phrasal and giving you a big explanation and instructional lesson about that phrasal.
Out.
introduce them and give you their moons and then I'm going to talk naturally about something else.
I'm not sure yet.
Maybe I'll talk about topics like I do these episodes or maybe all tell stories or talk about different experiences or maybe I'll just make things up.
I don't and you make something up this
means that you invent something.
So maybe I'll just make something.
I don't know yet, but I do know that I will just talk, and I will include these phrasal verbs that we're looking at, that particular episode, in my speech when I'm talking.
And I'll include them multiple times in different sentences in a natural way.
So, for example, maybe the phrasal verb is act up.
Okay?
And we're looking at two different meanings of that phrasal verb.
And one meaning is when some machine doesn't work correctly and it has some mechanical issues, like my engine is acting up.
And then we're also looking at...
Another meaning of act up, which is when kids are not behaving well and they're kind of throwing tantrums or being disobedient or whatever, we can say, my son has been acting up all week.
And maybe we want to practice with those two meanings of that phrase verb.
And so maybe I'll tell a story about a time...
time when both my engine and my son were acting up and I'll just talk naturally, but you'll hear these phrasal verbs included in my story.
That's just an example.
I don't know if it will be exactly like that, but I'm just giving you the idea of what I'm going to do.
And so with these episodes, you're going to get the same
listening practice that you're getting in my normal episodes because I'm going to be talking to you in English.
I'll talk slowly and clearly like in these episodes and I plan on providing the transcript to I think I'm not 100% sure about that but I think I will and so you're getting extra listening practice but with this listening practice
You're also getting the benefit of hearing these phrasal verbs used in a natural context and repeated multiple times during the episode.
And so this is my idea.
I hope you like this idea and I hope you see the purpose behind this, right, to have more listening practice, but specifically to expose you to phrasal verbs.
I'm going to help you do that.
So make sure that you listen to this whole episode because I'm going to talk about something that I'm going to do to give you practice with these phrasal groups.
So I'm sure this will be an interesting topic for this episode today.
And before we start, remember that if you need my help to understand native speakers, when they...
in a natural way and in a repetitive way.
And so there are many phrasal verbs in English.
Like I mentioned, hundreds, if not thousands of them.
So I will definitely have enough phrasal verbs to last me a lifetime of podcast episodes.
So I don't know how many phrasal verbs will focus on.
on in each episode, maybe just a couple, I don't know, and then I'll do my best to just naturally include those in the episode and so you can practice your listening just like you do with these episodes, but with those brazil verbs sprinkled in.
When we say that something is sprinkled in something else somewhere.
else, we're saying that you can find it in different places in that thing.
Okay.
So I'll sprinkle in those phrasal verbs and keep them.
And that'll help you start to get familiar with these different phrasal verbs in a natural way without me just presenting these different phrasal verbs to you.
And saying, okay, today we're going to look at get up.
get off, get off.
This is what this one means.
This is what the other one means.
Let's look at example sentences.
Obviously, like I said, I'm going to introduce them to you and give you an example sentence or example sentences probably.
But then after that, it'll just be listening practice with those phrasal verbs mixed it.
I think you get the point.
I repeated myself.
few times here, but I just want to explain to you how this type of episode fits in with my philosophy on how to learn phrase of it.
Because like I mentioned, I don't think you should focus on them as just something you need to memorize lists you should learn them through listening and greeting.
So that's my idea and...
I think that these episodes will be a little bit shorter than my normal episodes.
I don't know exactly how long they'll be yet, but they'll be a little shorter than these episodes.
And I hope to be able to give you the transcript as well.
I'm not sure about that, but I think I'm going to try to do that.
And I think the topics will be a little bit more constrained.
What I mean by that is...
I kind of have to make sure that I can fit these brazil verbs into my topic.
So I don't think the topics will be as free and open as some of my topics that I talk about in these normal episodes because I have to strategically talk about things that allow me to use that brazil verb or those two brazil verbs.
Right so the topics will be a little more constrained I might have to tell more stories and Give more experiences instead of just General topics.
I don't know.
We'll see but It'll be a little bit different in that way, but Really the practice is the same for you.
You don't have to do anything different, right?
You just Listen and use the transcript if you need
to repeat the episode and you'll be getting exposed to phrasal verbs while you do that.
So that's pretty cool.
I think I'm going to try to release these phrasal verb episodes on Fridays.
I'm not entirely sure yet, but I think I'm going to do that.
And I'm going to see if people like them.
I'm going to look at the statistics and see if the download numbers are...
the same and the people are responding well to these brazil verb episodes and if they end up not being that popular then I'll just stop them right I don't need to commit to continuing these episodes forever I'm gonna try this out this is a new idea and I think it'll be helpful but if I see that people aren't as interesting
speak fast.
If you can understand me, which can't understand other English speakers speak, then I recommend that you join my membership so that you can get my listening practice seminars in which I help you train with the different sound patterns in English.
I help you understand different phrases, words that might be hard to understand for new people.
I help you understand different phrases, words that might be hard to understand for new people.
interested in them, then I'm just going to stop.
So know that, that I'm not committing to doing this forever.
I'm going to try it out for a little while.
And if you like them, if people like them as much as normal episodes, then I'll continue with this idea.
So we'll see.
Probably after a couple months, I'll take a look at the statistics and make the decision.
But let's try it out.
I've received so many questions about phrasal verbs, and I always tell people that we need to learn them through natural exposure, listening and reading.
And now I feel like it's time that I give that practice, that natural exposure.
So I hope that you are excited about that, and that you'll actually like those episodes, and I hope.
We'll see see how it goes.
So that's it for today.
I hope that this episode was interesting for you And remember that if you need my help to understand native speakers when they speak past Then make sure to join my membership so you can get my specialized training that will help you listen better And if you become a listening time family member, you'll get my advanced podcast of the service as well So the link to that is down below and
So you get that and if you become a listening time fan member, then you also get my thing as to podcast episodes in which I speak at more and more speed.
So with that, you can practice listening to English when it's spoken at more and more speed.
So the link to that is in the description down below and I'll also put the link to my US Conversations Podcast down below.
If you feel ready...
to practice listening to two people talking instead of just one, then make sure to sign up for US conversations podcast.
It's a lot of fun.
You get to hear me talk to different people from around the country about different topics.
It's really educational and it's great practice for your listening.
So make sure to sign up and of course you have a transcript for this episode down the note as well.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about how to learn phrasal verbs in English.
So first, let me just tell you how you should view phrasal verbs, how you should think about these phrases.
So you should think of phrasal verbs as individual vocabulary straight.
Okay, what do I mean by that?
Well, you should treat these phrasal verbs as any other vocabulary word that you come across when you're learning English.
Okay, so for example, the phrasal verb look up that I mentioned at the beginning of this episode, you should just treat that phrase as a new vocabulary word.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 154 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing well and I hope you're ready to practice your English with another episode.
And in today's episode, we're going to talk about something that many of us struggle with.
When you struggle with something, this means that you have difficulty with it.
It's something that causes you some problems.
So this is something that many of us struggle with, which is imposter syndrome.
So I'm sure a lot of you have heard of this before, but maybe some of you haven't.
And someone has imposter syndrome.
to do different things.
There's the ideal perfect way and you try to do different things in this perfect way and you have a very high standard for yourself of how you want to do things.
So many people have this personality trait and if you do.
this might contribute to this imposter syndrome because normally perfectionists are very self-critical.
They have a standard that's very high and usually they have trouble meeting that standard because it's so high.
So if that's the case...
then you might feel like an imposter sometimes.
By the way, the word imposter is like the word fraud that I already explained.
It means someone is pretending to be someone else that they're not.
Okay?
So people might feel like they're an imposter or they're a fraud if they're up.
perfectionist and they're not needing their own standard of perfection.
So that can contribute to this.
And some people have a more neurotic personality like me, for example, someone who's neurotic experiences a lot of self-doubt.
They doubt themselves too much.
Right they have a lot of anxiety about different things and they might overreact to small or minor things These are things that I am constantly trying to work on because I have these tendencies.
I'm a Rodic person But I'm trying not to be
neurotic.
So I'm working on this, but I still struggle with this sometimes.
And so this personality trait can also lead to imposter syndrome because we doubt ourselves.
We think that we're not good people.
If they think we're good, then they're...
wrong because we're actually not that good and we get overly anxious about things and overthink things, overreact to things.
All of these contribute to this feeling that we're fronds, we're imposterous.
So those personality traits and other ones might play a role in...
is in post-serendrum and a person's family might also affect this so maybe someone might experience post-serendrum if they grew up in a family that expects very high achievement.
They expect their kids to do extremely well in school and sports and life.
in general and this can be hard to deal with because you feel like you're never really meeting your parents expectations, you're never good enough, right?
Or maybe your family is filled with people who are very successful.
They've done a lot of great things and...
They've had excellent careers and they've made names for themselves.
When you make a name for yourself, this means that you succeed and so people might know your name because you've had success in some field.
Right?
So maybe you have people like that in your family and that can contribute to.
This means that this person doubts their skills, their talents, their achievements, and they can fear they might be afraid that they're a fraud.
So a fraud is someone who's kind of like a fake.
They're not legitimate.
So this person might feel like they're a fraud.
this feeling because you feel like all of your family members are actually successful and you're not.
And even if you have success, you're just a fraud.
You're not like the other people in your family.
Or maybe your family is very critical.
And maybe they criticize you unfairly and make...
you feel not legitimate, right?
They make you feel kind of like a fraud.
So all of that could contribute to this as well.
And another thing that causes people to feel like an imposter is when they have new opportunities and they're starting new things like maybe they're starting in a new company.
or a new position and they have no experience or little experience and they have this feeling that they don't know what they're doing.
They don't have the competence or the skills to perform that job so that can definitely contribute.
And then one other cause could be...
that people compare themselves to other people in an unhealthy way.
So they look at everyone else, maybe their field like their industry or whatever, and they see everyone else as experts and they think of themselves as frauds, right?
They unfit.
They can barely compare other people and themselves.
And they always come to the conclusion that other people are better than them, other people are legit, and they themselves aren't legit.
Right?
So that can also cause imposter syndrome.
So how does this syndrome affect us?
If we experience this...
what will usually happen is we doubt ourselves too much.
I think it's good to question ourselves.
That's healthy.
We should always analyze our thoughts, our actions.
That's good.
However, there's a healthy way to question yourself and analyze yourself.
And there's...
unhealthy way to do this.
And if you are constantly doubting yourself and constantly questioning your own success and everything that you've done and you don't think you're legitimate, then you're going too far, right?
You're over doubting, so to say.
So that's something that happens, so.
when you think like this, you just constantly doubt yourself and you lose confidence in your own abilities, right?
And another thing that might happen is you will probably attribute your success to luck.
When you attribute something to something else, this means that you determine that this thing...
is caused by that other thing.
So you think your success was caused by pure luck.
Right?
You're attributing your success luck.
So that's a common thing that happens with this syndrome.
People might be successful, but when they look back, they laugh at their different.
successes, they invalidate them and they say, no, that was luck.
No, that was just good timing.
No, that was whatever.
Right?
So that's another thing that can happen.
And another way that it might affect people is they have this lingering feeling when you say something lingering.
This means that it stays there.
and that they don't deserve the success that they have.
So this is a negative syndrome, a negative condition, of course.
However, it's really common.
I think that many people experience this in different areas of their life or during different seasons of their life, by the way.
for a long time and doesn't really go away when it should.
So they have a lingering feeling that they're going to be found out.
When we say that you're found out, this means that other people discover your lie, your secret.
Right?
So people might feel like they're going to be found out that people are going to discuss.
that they're from, they're an imposter, they're not really good at what they do, they're not good at their job or whatever.
So that's something they might feel.
And one other way that it affects people is that it might limit them from actually moving up in their career or whatever.
It might stop them from trying.
new things or starting new projects because they feel like they can't do these things.
They're not capable.
They're not that good.
So they limit themselves from things that could be good for them.
Things that could help them have more success or things
that could end up being successful for them.
They don't do them because they have this feeling that they're in imposter.
They're not actually that good.
They're not capable of doing these things.
So those are some ways that imposter syndrome can affect people.
And lastly, let's talk about some ways that we can.
come back in posture syndrome.
So the first thing that I thought of is I think it's good to honestly evaluate our strengths.
So we're very good at evaluating our weaknesses or at least a lot of people need included.
A lot of people are very good at evaluating our weaknesses because
maybe we have these types of personality traits that I mentioned before.
We're very self-critical.
So I'm very good at seeing what I do wrong, what I'm not good at, the things that others are better at than me.
That's easy for me, for example.
However, we should also honestly adopt...
are strengths as well.
And I say honestly, of course, some people might have the tendency to go in the opposite direction and maybe they're too prideful.
And I think that they're really good at things that they aren't so good at.
But usually those aren't the people
that big of a struggle with impostors in your own.
Right?
Usually it's the other types of people who are too self-critical.
So for people that are really self-critical, it's good to honestly evaluate your strengths and see what you're good at.
Write down a list of your strengths, things that you do well, or things that you've had in success with.
in the past and it might even be a good idea to ask other people around you that are people that love you, right?
Not people that want to bring you down.
Ask some other people what types of strengths they think that you have.
Not including...
weaknesses here because that can sometimes be hurtful to hear other people talk about all your weaknesses, right?
I'm just addressing this imposter syndrome here.
One thing that could help is asking other people to talk to you about your strengths and tell you what they think you're good at and this can help you see that-
we can use the word season figuratively to talk about different time periods in your life, different seasons of your life.
So I think this topic is very relevant to a lot of people.
So we'll talk about this today.
I'll talk about why some people have in Poster syndrome, how it affects us,
other people don't think you're a fraud and other people actually see your positive qualities, right?
So that can be a helpful activity.
Another thing we can do is we can humbly celebrate our successes.
I emphasize the word humbly here.
We want to be humble with this.
We want to have humility.
and not be prideful, not be puffed up.
When you're puffed up, this means that you're prideful.
You think that you're the best, right?
So we want to humbly do this.
We want to celebrate our success with humility and not just try to invalidate everything and say...
Nope, that was luck.
That was luck.
I didn't do that.
That was luck.
Right.
Sometimes it is luck.
Obviously.
But there are many things that we do to contribute to our own success.
Maybe you can view your successes as accomplished goals.
Right.
You had a certain goal.
Maybe you wanted to reach a certain goal.
position, your company, and you reached it.
You accomplished that goal.
That's something to celebrate.
Humbly, of course.
Right?
So it's good to actually view your successes as goals that you accomplished.
because of your hard work, your determination, your motivation, right, your discipline.
talked about motivation and discipline recently.
Both of those things contribute to success and achieving goals.
So it's good to view your goals as, of course, a mixture of luck and hard work and those other things.
Just say that all of your success is 100% determined by...
you, only you.
No, other people help us on our way to success.
There might be luck involved.
You were in the right place at the right time or whatever, right?
We're not the complete author of our success.
We're not God, right?
So we want to recognize that.
But really celebrate when you accomplish a goal.
that you had and you achieved something and don't look at it as I'm a genius, right?
But look at it as I worked hard and I was motivated and determined and I did it.
Cool.
I want to do that again, right?
That's a good way to celebrate your success, right?
Another thing we can do is to not focus on
perfection.
Right?
If we have this idea of perfection and that we have to meet this very high standard, we're always going to feel like we're not good, we're frogs, we're not capable of succeeding in different areas because if we have this standard of perfection...
nobody meets the standard.
We're not perfect, right?
We have flaws.
A flaw is something that is imperfect.
It's an imperfection.
So we have flaws.
So we're never going to be perfect.
So don't have this standard, right?
Try to be as close as possible to perfect.
Everything you do, of course.
but don't expect yourself to be perfect.
Okay?
That should help.
And another thing we can do is to only compare ourselves with other people in a healthy way.
Okay?
I don't think that we should just never compare ourselves.
Some people will say, stop comparing yourselves to other people.
And of course, they're right in a certain...
and some ways to get over it and to come back this way of thinking.
When you come back something, this means that you fight against it.
So we'll look at some ways to come back this way of thinking.
And of course, I'm not an expert on this.
I'm just talking from my own experience.
context, but I don't think we should just always refrain from comparing ourselves with, you know, other people.
By the way, when you refrain from something, this means that you don't do something.
You choose not to do it.
So we don't have to always refrain from comparing ourselves because comparing ourselves to other people can motive.
us sometimes.
So what I mean when I say compare ourselves in a healthy way is to look up to people.
When you look up to someone, this means that you admire certain qualities in that person.
And so you kind of want to be like that too.
You want to have those qualities that you see in someone else.
This is a...
thing to look up to people who have good qualities and to use that as motivation to say, oh man, I really want to be a good husband like Mark is.
He seems to be a great husband.
There's nothing wrong with that type of comparison if we're using it to motivate ourselves to be better.
Right?
However, it's not good to just look at other people and think that we're always way worse than everyone else and He's so much better than me.
I'm never gonna have the success he has Right, that's the wrong way to compare yourself to other people, right?
So that's another thing we can do compare ourselves in a healthy way
use other people to motivate us and not make us feel bad.
Right?
And lastly, one other way we can combat imposter syndrome is by continuing to learn constantly.
Always learn, always update your skills when necessary.
Always try to be better and do things better, not with a standard
perfection of course but just always challenge yourself to learn more, be better and the competence will follow after that.
If you start a new position you're probably not going to have all the skills necessary at the very beginning to succeed but if you keep on learning you learn from other people locks are used'.
practicing repeating what you need to do, eventually you'll get competent.
Right?
That's how it was for me when I started as an English teacher at the beginning.
I didn't know what I was doing, but I continued doing it and learning and getting better and learning more about English, general, and eventually I was able to...
do my job better, answer people's questions better, etc.
Right?
So those are some ways that we can try to overcome and combat imposter syndrome.
So that's it for today.
I hope you enjoyed this episode and I hope it gave you some ideas on how to maybe approach this imposter syndrome.
maybe not let it really keep you down and affect everything you do, right?
And of course if you feel ready to practice with harder content, my advanced episodes in which I speak fast, you can sign up for those by becoming a listening time family member.
The link is down below in the episode description and you can also sign up for my video.
I'm definitely not the authority here and I'm not giving you advice related to psychology or health or anything like that.
I'm just talking from experience.
So I'm sure you'll enjoy this topic and as always remember to sign up for my advanced episodes if you want to practice with real...
English, English spoken fast.
The link is down below.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And you can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast if you want to practice with my conversations with other native speakers.
So the link to that is also down below.
That's patreon.com slash US Conversations.
All right, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about imposter syndrome.
So first of all, let's talk about a few reasons why people feel this, why people think this way.
So one reason might be the person's personality.
It might have to do with your character, your type of thinking the way that you naturally are.
So, for example, some people consider themselves to be perfectionists.
You might be one of those people.
So, if you're a perfectionist, you usually think that there's a perfect way.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 172 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great and that you feel motivated to practice your English with this episode and I mentioned motivation because in this episode I want to talk about how
I increase my motivation to do certain things, to achieve certain goals, to do what I want to do in theory.
So I think that you all like episodes about motivation.
It's a topic that I think that we all like because we all want to yield more motivation.
that can really benefit you.
So why do I do this?
Why does removing things that give me pleasure help me be more motivated to achieve my goals?
Well, it's pretty simple when I remove things that are really stimulating and pleasurable that I can do on an issue.
everyday basis when I remove those things, then the other activities that I do that are related to my goals or that are the things that I want to do but have trouble starting them or they aren't necessarily as fun at the beginning.
Those things, these good activities,
I'll call them become the most interesting things in my day.
So if I don't take away those instant pleasures, then those things will always seem better, funner, and preferable.
Preferable, who first do, when something is preferred.
Those things will always be...
be preferable if I have them in my day and it will always be harder to do the things that are related to my goals that don't give me as much pleasure right now.
So let me give you four examples of what I have removed from my daily life.
and how that has helped me actually do other actions that are related to my goals.
Maybe you can remove one of these things or decrease one of these things or maybe you can think of something else that you might be able to remove from your day that can allow you to take more interest.
in another activity that is related to your goals.
So the first one that I wanna talk about is TV and movies.
This is one of the hardest things I think for people to get rid of.
And I'm not saying that you're all gonna be able to do this really easily, but I have been able to do this.
I've been able to do this.
And...
and it's had great benefits for me.
So I don't watch TV in my everyday life, and I don't watch movies.
And because of that, I've been able to do a lot more reading in the last couple of years.
One of my goals, one of the things that I really want to do is to read consistently.
It's something that I really enjoy.
It's not like I need to force myself to do this, but it definitely doesn't provide the instant pleasure that watching a movie does or watching something on Netflix does.
You know what I'm talking about.
You turn on the TV and you start watching something.
it's very pleasurable.
You're able to relax and just be absorbed in that TV show or that movie and it's very easy to do that.
Reading a book is not as easy.
It takes more effort, it takes more brain power, more attention.
It is not something.
thing that sparks that same immediate reaction in your brain that these other things do, right, when you're watching Netflix, for example.
However, I really like reading and I have the goal of reading consistently throughout my life and one of the ways in which I can...
motivated and motivation is something that comes and goes, it goes up and goes down.
But I think that there are ways that we can actually increase our motivation and maybe have a little more stability in the sense that we can keep our motivation higher.
do this more easily is by taking away these other things that are the easier choice instead of reading.
And so because I don't watch TV and because I don't watch movies, I really look forward to reading because this is my main form of entertainment.
This is where I
I can get that interesting story, the interesting plot with interesting characters.
By the way, the word plot refers to the story of some book or movie, etc.
So I get all of that from my books because I really like to read classic fiction, classic novels.
And so I...
get that stimulation from my books instead of from a TV screen.
And so you can see how that works.
If TV and movies aren't an option and I want that interesting story, I want that entertainment, well suddenly books become very attractive because that's the way
that I fulfill that desire.
So, books have become more desirable and they become more fun for me since I took away those other easy forms of entertainment.
And honestly, I don't regret this decision at all.
I don't think about watching TV or movies.
I save a lot of time and I spend more time
reading and this is a very rewarding thing.
So I'm not saying that you need to do this, but I'm just trying to give you some ideas.
Okay, the next thing that I have removed from my life that has helped me be more motivated to do other things is social media.
I've talked about this a lot.
I don't...
consume social media in my life.
I haven't done this in I think maybe two and a half years or so and because I don't have that I have more motivation to have genuine interaction with other people.
I have more motivation to actually socialize with people in the
real world because social media can kind of make us feel like we are interacting with the world because we're consuming things from other people maybe we're even talking to our friends on social media.
It's a type of interaction, right?
However, for me, because...
because I've taken that out of my life.
I've removed that.
Now, if I want to interact with people, I have to actually do so in the real world.
I have to go see those people and talk to them.
And I've noticed that since I took away this social media, I have had a bigger interest.
and socializing with people.
I'm more interested in talking to people, going out and spending time with people.
I remember that when I was living in Mexico for the last year or maybe the last six months that I lived there, I had just removed social media completely from my life and...
That was also when I just felt the need to go to these meetup events where people that were locals and then also foreigners would go and meet up and have conversations and eat at a restaurant together.
That was when I started doing that.
This after I completely...
if we do certain things.
So that's why I like to talk about this topic and I'm sure that in this episode today you'll get some ideas made about how you can increase your own motivation.
So that's what we'll talk about today and if you feel motivated to practice with my advanced podcast episodes.
removed social media from my life.
And I don't think that that's a coincidence.
I think that before that time, I was able to just feel like I had interaction with people via social media.
But when I took that away, I had that desire for socialization.
And I actually felt motivated to go out.
meet people and talk to people and interact with people, etc.
So that's another thing that I have removed from my day and has helped me be motivated to do something that's good for me.
Okay, another thing that I have removed from my day that has helped increase my motivation for something good is that I don't watch YouTube in...
English anymore.
Or I do so very very little or very rarely.
So before I watched a lot of YouTube in English.
But now because I don't do this, when I'm on YouTube, I have to watch things in French because that's the language that I'm learning.
And so watching YouTube in French.
has become my source of pleasure instead of watching YouTube in English.
And this is great because I'm actually learning French, which is my goal.
So if I still watched YouTube in English, it would be hard for me to choose to watch videos in French, because of course it's easy.
and more pleasurable to watch things in English and just spend hours watching videos in English.
That's easy and it provides instant gratification.
This means that it gives me immediate pleasure.
But now, because I've removed that, if I want...
to watch YouTube, get that pleasure.
I watch it in French, which gives me the benefit of learning French.
So this has increased my motivation to consume content in French because watching videos in French is the only way that I get to watch YouTube nowadays.
So of course I watch
YouTube in French with the goal of learning French, which is great, but I actually sometimes just feel like I'm really interested in that YouTube channel or the content video or whatever, just because it's really interesting for me.
So I'm not only doing it to learn French.
I feel motivated because it's
actually fun, right?
It's like watching YouTube in English except it's harder.
I'm actually doing it in a different language.
So you can see how taking away that option to watch YouTube in English gives me motivation to watch it in French because I still want YouTube in my life and so that's the way I do it.
I watch it.
it in French.
Right?
So that's another thing that I've taken away.
And one other thing that I've removed from my day that helps increase my motivation to achieve certain goals is that I don't have a lot of easy entertainment at home.
So for example, I don't have video games and other things that that are just real...
fun and give instant pleasure and that are addictive or whatever.
In my house there isn't a lot of entertainment to be honest.
There just isn't a lot of entertainment in this physical space.
So because of that I feel more motivated to get out of the house, to go be in the real world and to...
in which I speak fast and I provide the transcript, then make sure to sign up to become a listening time family member and you'll get two new advanced podcast episodes every month.
This is the perfect practice for you to start to understand fast English.
So I really encourage you to sign up for those episodes and I also encourage you to sign up for my US conversation.
do things that are fun outside of my house because when I think of all the fun things that I do during the week, pretty much all of them are outside my house because I don't have a lot of really fun entertainment here and so this helps me to be motivated to actually go out and
do things outside.
I think some of you might have that goal to go explore new places, go to different parts of your city or go to different nature places and high or do things like that.
But it might be hard to do so because you have
tons of entertainment at home that makes it really easy to just stay home and stay indoors all day.
So for me, because I don't have all of that entertainment here, my fun is found outside my house.
And this also helps me do things like go running.
So I've been running...
more recently and I've been feeling really motivated to run because it gets me out of the house.
I get to be outside in the fresh air, in the sunshine or around nature and I feel motivated to go outside to run because it's actually funner than being here at my house.
the most part because I don't have all of these easy sources of addictive entertainment here.
So that's actually helped me be healthier because I feel motivated throughout the week to go outside and not just run but to go on walks in nature, go on hikes, go to parks, take my kids, uh...
to fun places things like that and so I've been able to spend some more time outdoors and I hope that I can explore a lot of different places around me in my city and see some cool nature places I feel motivated to do that because those things those places
more fun than my own house.
But of course I'm not saying that we should just have a really really boring living environment here at our house.
Of course not.
But I think that if we limit how much addictive entertainment is here at our houses, we can feel more motivated to actually find fun things out.
outside of our house in other places.
And so this is a goal that I have to spend more time outside my house.
So that's how I can feel more motivated to achieve that goal.
So hopefully this episode gave you some ideas of things that you might be able to reduce a little bit so that your other activity...
activities seem more interesting for you.
And really, in summary, that's what I was trying to get across with this episode.
The phrase get across means to communicate something.
So, what I was trying to get across with all of these examples in this episode is that the way I increase my motivation to do things...
in my life is to remove the other things that give me more pleasure, but that I don't really want to do.
I want to do the activities related to my goals, and so because I want to do those activities, I take away the easier activities that are more pleasurable.
I think that makes sense, right?
But of course it's a...
So you can practice with my conversations that I have with people from all over the US, from different cities and states.
You learn a lot about the country with this podcast and it's a lot of fun.
And this is a great introduction to listening to two people talking and not just one.
So the link to sign up is also down.
Okay, if you disagree with me about this, that's perfectly fine.
But maybe this episode got you thinking about some things that can help you increase your motivation.
Alright, remember that if you want my advanced episodes, if you feel the motivation to start practicing with those, then make sure to become a listening time family member.
That is down below.
And if you feel motivated to practice with my...
and you have the link to the transcript for this episode down below as well.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Alright, let me talk about how I increase my motivation to achieve my goals to do things that I want to do.
How do I increase my motivation for different things in my life?
Well, let me just be honest.
Many of you are not going to like the answer to this question.
So that's okay.
It's okay if you don't agree with me about this.
However, even if you don't agree with me, I think that there are some things that you can take.
from this episode that you can still apply to your own life and you'll see some benefits.
So how do I increase my motivation?
The way I do that is that I remove things from my daily life that give me a lot of instant pleasure.
So I actually take away a lot of things that...
most people have in their everyday lives.
And so, I know just hearing that doesn't sound very good for a lot of you.
And like I said, it's perfectly fine if you disagree with me on this.
And I might be a little extreme with this.
So, like I said, you might just be able to apply a little bit of this.
And...
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 166 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great and I hope that you're inspired to practice your English today and speaking of inspiration.
The topic of today's episode is inspirational books.
So I'm sure
that you see quotes like this if you're on social media or whatever, you'll see people post these quotes to inspire, motivate people quotes from famous people throughout history.
And so I thought it would be interesting for me to take some of these inspirational quotes and talk about them.
And in this case, in hockey, you shoot the puck into the neck to score a goal.
I think it's called a goal.
Sorry, I don't watch hockey.
But he's saying that if you don't try this, then you won't score.
You have to try in order to score.
And people are afraid of missing.
If they don't even attempt the shot, then...
they have a 0% chance of actually scoring.
So if there's a soccer player who is too afraid to actually try to score a goal and so he doesn't attempt to score, then he'll never score.
So the idea behind this quote is that if you're afraid of failing, then you should think about the fact that
If you don't even try, then you are for sure going to fail in the sense that you will have a 0% chance of succeeding because you're not even starting that thing.
I think you get the point, right?
So I like this quote.
This is a very famous quote I've heard this many times.
And I think that there's a lot of wisdom behind this quote.
I think that...
that if we're always afraid to fail, then we won't try things and therefore we won't actually accomplish things.
And I think of my own life and examples of this and one great example is when I started this podcast.
So before this podcast, I had created other content that did
didn't do very well.
And I spent a lot of time making content.
I didn't have much success and other things actually failed.
And so I easily could have said, well I don't want to fail again and have a podcast that I start and then I stop because no one listens to it.
So I'm just not gonna make the
I easily could have said that because I had other content that I made that didn't succeed.
So of course that thought was in my mind.
However I still went for it.
By the way when we say that you go for something we're saying that you try to attempt something.
I went for it and...
I succeeded for the most part.
And I'm still making this podcast today.
It's still helping many people around the world with their English listening comprehension.
And that's because I actually took the shot, so to say, I actually tried to score the goal.
And if I had been afraid of failing, then I never would have started.
this podcast.
So that's how I can apply this quote to my own podcast.
I think that that demonstrates this point well.
And throughout the rest of my life, I want to try not to be afraid of failing.
I know I will fail probably many times because I want to take a lot of shots and miss some.
Of course, but I will make some.
I will succeed in some areas.
And so if you look at some of the greatest athletes who have scored like the most goals or the most baskets, basket mall, a lot of times these are athletes that have actually missed like more goals or more baskets than most other people.
Like I don't have...
have the exact numbers, but I imagine that Kobe Bryant probably missed tons and tons of shots if you actually just look at the number of misses.
However, he made tons and tons of shots because he wasn't afraid of missing and that's why he became one of the greatest players of all time.
Right, so I think that's a good lesson for us.
Okay, the next inspirational vote.
and give my thoughts and my experiences related to the topic of the quote, and I'll talk about whether or not I agree with the quote.
So I chose four quotes that I'll talk about in this episode.
And then I'm gonna do a part two with four other quotes, but that will be...
that I wanted to talk about is this do not go where the path may lead go instead where there is no path and leave a trail.
This is by Ralph Waldo Emerson.
So I partially agree with this.
Okay.
First of all, what is this point saying?
It's saying don't just follow a path that is already there.
You should make your own path.
So in other words, don't just do what other people have done before you.
Find your own way.
Do things differently.
And I partially agree with this because sometimes being a trailblazer can be a great thing.
By the way, we can use the word trailblazer to talk about someone that is the first person to make this path this trailblazer.
They're the first ones to do it and then people follow you after you do it.
So that's a trailblazer.
Sometimes being a trailblazer can be great.
Sometimes people have great success because they think outside the box as we say and they do things differently and they find new ways and they have great success.
success because they did everything differently.
And that happens sometimes.
However, I also think that you don't need to do this.
You don't need to do things completely differently in order to have success in different areas of your life.
And in fact, I think that this can sometimes be a bad thing when you decide that you want to do things.
Completely differently from how everyone else did them before you You try your own way.
I think that Oftentimes this can leave you to fail.
So I Think that this quote is sometimes true and sometimes not true.
I think that it's good when possible to follow other people's examples and Have role models say oh I
to do things like him.
I want to be like her.
I want to try it the way he did it.
And maybe you just follow their path and do things like someone else who is successful did that before you.
And that's great.
So for example, I think of business and some people want to come up with a brand new business model.
an idea that is unlike anything else that's on the market, no one else has ever done it before.
And sometimes this leads to a great product and the person becomes a really, really successful entrepreneur, but probably more often than not, that doesn't happen.
And they end up failing because if no one else has ever done it this way, that might be because...
That's not a good way to do it.
Right?
So, some advice that I hear a lot when I listen to people that have succeeded in creating a successful business is they say that you shouldn't try to reinvent the wheel.
That expression means that you don't want to create something brand new from scratch and you can just...
do the thing that other people have had success with.
And then you add your own style to it, your own twist, so to say.
And I think that's good advice.
However, yes, there are times when being a trailblazer can lead to great success.
So, I guess in summary, I understand this quote.
And I think that it's sometimes good advice.
But I think that in a lot of other cases it's good to just use role models and examples.
People that have succeeded for you and do try to kind of follow their path but like I said do it in your own style and add things to that.
So this one I partially agree with.
Alright the next inspirational quote that I want to talk
in a bonus episode.
This month's bonus episode.
So if you want part two, then you'll have to sign up for my membership.
And by the way, I recommend that you sign up for the membership if you want me to help you understand native speakers when they speak fast.
You'll get my specialized training, my listening practice seminars, and if you become a listening time family member, Knotina funds programs, My ministers are working together and Access team ringing.
H간 bla bla bla,
about is this one.
Many of life's failures are people who did not realize how close they were to success when they gave them.
And I believe that's from Thomas Edison.
So what is this quote saying?
It's saying that a lot of times someone who failed is someone who was really close to succeeding but they didn't know that.
They didn't know how close they were to success.
and then they gave up right before that.
And so they became a failure.
And I like this quote, and I think that it applies to many areas of life.
And the first thing that came to mind when I was thinking of different ways I could apply this quote is in language learning.
And specifically, the concept of learning vocabulary because many of you is used.
listened to me long enough, you might know my philosophy when it comes to learning vocabulary, and that is that we learn it through exposure and repetition, and each new word takes a different amount of time to learn, or more specifically a different number of individual repeated counters with that word.
So, for example, maybe one word, you have to hear it 55 times in order to finally know it and be able to use it naturally.
And then another word might take 155 times.
And you don't know where that threshold is.
You don't know that exact number that you'll have to reach in order to know the word.
And when it comes to...
language learning, people who are at an intermediate level, because they are already at that level, they already know the basic words.
And those basic words are the words that show up again, again, again, again, and you learn them a lot faster because how many times have seen them.
But once you're at an intermediate level, the words that you don't know, don't show up very frequently.
They're not used as much.
So, it takes a lot longer to actually learn new words at that level because you don't see them repeated as much as the basic words.
And so because of that, many people at an intermediate level, they feel like they're stuck and they're not learning enough new words in order to advance and they feel like they're not improving and a lot of times they just want to give up.
they get really desperate and they think they need to start all over again, learn from scratch.
And what they're not realizing is that maybe they've heard this particular word 150 times and they don't realize that this word requires them to hear it 151 times in order to finally get that word
And they don't know that because we don't know that exact number.
But you might be really close and not even know it, yet you feel like you're not improving it all, even though you are improving.
Because if this word requires 151 repetitions for you to actually learn it, and last year you had heard it 55 times, and now this year, you're all the way up to 100.
to be.
That's an improvement because you just need one more repetition of that word and then suddenly you're going to know it.
But you won't know until you actually reach that pressure.
Does that make sense?
So that's what I thought of when I thought of this quote, is people don't realize that they're close to success and so they get discouraged sometimes quit and language.
learn.
This can definitely happen especially at an intermediate level when they feel like they aren't learning as many words and it's a lot harder for them to improve.
They need to realize that if they're doing the practice they are getting closer to success.
So hopefully that made sense.
I know that that idea is a little bit complex.
my advanced podcast episodes in which I speak fast so you can practice with real English spoken at no speed.
So the link to sign up is down below and you can also sign up for my US Conversations podcast in which I talked to different people from around the country about a lot of different topics.
It's a lot of fun, it's educational and I provide the transcript for you.
maybe in terms of vocabulary, but I hope I explained that well, why this quote made me think of that.
Alright, one other quote that I want to talk about is this one.
The purpose of life is to be happy.
So I think many people have said this quote.
I think in particular I saw that even the Dalai Lama said this, he had his own reasons for saying it was obviously a little deeper than...
how it sounds.
But this is something that I disagree with.
Okay, and I know people have different reasons for saying this, and I know that many people's reasons for saying this are deeper and more complex than just what this quote sounds like.
I get that for sure.
However, even with those deeper reasons or whatever, I still disagree with this.
I don't think that the
purpose of life is to be happy.
I think that we should all want to be happy and I think that's something that is good.
We want to be characterized as happy people.
That's something that is a good thing if you're happy.
However, if that is our focus, if that is our main goal, I believe that we end up looking.
selfishly because if something doesn't make us happy and our ultimate purpose life is to be happy then that means that we will not do many things if they don't make us happy and I think that that's the mistake.
I don't think that we should only do things that we want to do and I know that people who believe in
this quote and believe that this is the old people, they'll have a different explanation of why they say this.
But if I just look at the quote itself, the purpose of life is to be happy, I have to just attack the overall meaning of that, right?
If I disagree, right?
So I get that you might think that and you might have been using this for that.
But I'm just talking about this quote.
away I see it.
So I don't think that our primary goal should be to be happy.
I think that I've known multiple people who have the score and they try the best to live their life in a way that makes them happy before anything else.
And I've seen the effects of this and I have seen that they
will not do things if those things don't make them happy, even if the result of not doing those things actually hurts other people and actually has a negative impact on even the people that they love.
I've seen this.
I've experienced this where people who have this goal do things or don't do things because they have this goal.
And because of that, I suffer as a result.
And I don't think that's good.
I don't think that we should think of our lives as we'll just... an opportunity to be happy, and that's our ultimate goal.
Like I said, I think it's good to be happy.
We should try to be happy.
And in my experience, I think that it's good to be able to sacrifice and be self.
and to deny ourselves certain pleasures even though those pleasures make us happy and I think it's even necessary to suffer a little bit.
Some people don't like that.
They don't want to ever suffer because suffering is like the opposite of being happy.
And I'm not saying that life is all about these things.
Sacrifice, denying yourself, suffering.
I think that these things are part of...
life, but it's not all this.
I think that we should accept these negatives while we also aim for happiness.
And that means that our purpose shouldn't just be, uh, try to be happy because if that's the ultimate purpose, that means that we will reject these other things because these other things don't make us happy, we don't want to have to sacrifice.
you with the definitions of keywords, phrases that we use.
So it's a great resource for you to use.
To practice listening to more than one person talking and being able to understand people when you're in a group context, when it's more than just one person speaking.
So the link to sign up is also down below.
And you have the link.
and deny ourselves and suffer things like that.
But sometimes those things actually produce a better result and help us and the people around us.
And so, I don't know.
I think that when I hear people talk about this, about that's their only concern, or that's their biggest concern, being happy, or even when parents.
say this one, parents say that their only wish is for their kids to be happy and I know parents like this who as long as their kids are happy, they support and encourage them to even make bad decisions which are pretty obviously bad decisions but because the kid thinks that that decision will make them happen with the parents as well as long as your happy
then you should do it.
And honestly, I disagree with that.
And you might disagree with me, and that's perfectly okay.
I did a whole episode on disagreeing with people.
It's great that we have disagreements.
But I'm just saying what I think, I don't think that the ultimate goal should be to be happy.
And I'm not just going to say, well, as long as my kids are happy, then everything they do is fine.
and not gonna discourage them from making certain decisions.
I'm definitely gonna discourage my kids from making certain decisions if I think that those decisions will be harmful for them.
Even if my kids say that, wow, that decision makes me happy, I'm gonna try to advise them and help steer them in the correct direction.
Let's say.
So that's it for this episode.
We want the part two.
this to hear me talk about some other quotes, then make sure to join my membership so you can listen to that bonus episode in which I talk about it.
And remember that you can get my advanced episodes if you become a listening time family member and you can also sign up for my US Conversations podcast by going down clicking on the link below and you'll be able to sign up to listen to my conversations that I have with other people around the country.
to the transcript for this episode down below as well.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Alright, let's talk about some inspirational quotes.
So some of these quotes might not be 100% accurate.
They might be misquotes as we call them.
And maybe some of them might not even be actual things that the things person said, but for some reason everyone thinks that person said them.
So I can't say for sure that all of these quotes are definitely things that these things people said.
And these are quotes that you see on the internet and that people attribute to these
different things people.
So I'll do that as well.
By the way, we say that you attribute something to someone else.
This means that you're giving credit to someone else, you're giving credit for something to a certain person.
So we're saying that this person said that quote.
So the first inspirational quote that I want to talk about is
One of the ones that I see the most which is you miss 100% of the shots you don't take and this was said by Wayne Gretzky I believe is one of the greatest hockey players of all time so What is Wayne Gretzky saying when he says this?
Well, he's saying that if you don't actually attempt to shoot
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Conor and you're listening to episode 176 of the Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
I think that today's episode will be really interesting one.
It'll be maybe a little personal because I'm going to talk about intercultural marriage.
What does this mean?
Well a marriage with two people who are from different cultures.
Okay, so in other words from different countries or possibly two people from the same country, but a really really big country and maybe they come from different parts of the country.
Have really different cultures, but for most people this will mean...
or if you're not super, super good in their language.
This might happen more at the beginning of the relationship and then maybe the two people get better at the other person's language or maybe just one of the two people really learns their husband or their wife's language and then this becomes less barrier.
But...
I think there's still a barrier because you speak different native languages.
So I remember when I was first dating my wife and I was learning Spanish with her because when I met her I didn't speak Spanish.
I just spoke a little bit and so you can imagine when you're dating and during the first few months or so.
I had to try to get to know her and have her get to know me.
All the while I was speaking Spanish, this language that I wasn't too familiar with.
So you can imagine the difficulty of doing that and how that complicated things, especially during the times when there were...
arguments.
I think we can all agree that every relationship has arguments.
People argue, right?
And it's not easy to resolve these conflicts in a lot of cases.
And so imagine now having to resolve those conflicts, those arguments in a foreign language.
It's not easy.
It's definitely not...
fun when you're still learning the language, it can be frustrating and it can make it harder to just understand each other.
So of course that's a negative.
Another negative is that oftentimes you get married to someone who is from a different country.
There are legal processes that are very...
frustrating, annoying, when it comes to immigration and getting married and bringing your spouse to your country to live legally, that can be a big issue.
Especially if you're from a country like US that has a very big, strict, complicated immigration.
system, this is not an easy process to go through.
So that one is just one that doesn't really have any positives to it.
It's just a completely negative thing that you have to deal with sometimes when it comes to intercultural marriages.
So I've been through that.
I can talk from experience here.
it's not easy to go through those processes.
And so I don't think that anyone likes that aspect of marrying someone from another country.
Another negative might be that you and your spouse might have completely different world views.
You might have a different background and a different...
perspective when it comes to many aspects of life, maybe things like goals and happiness, even you might come from very different backgrounds.
Therefore you might have very different perspectives when it comes to things.
That can definitely be a positive as well.
You can teach each other, learn from each other.
But it can also complicate things for sure because you are Looking at things you are approaching things from very different perspectives and sometimes you don't see eye to eye We use that phrase see eye to eye to talk about two people kind of agreeing with each other understanding
people that get married and they're from different countries with very different cultures.
Intercultural marriage.
So I say that this is a little bit personal because I am in intercultural marriage.
And so I'll talk a little bit from experience here.
But of course, I'll just talk in general as well.
So I'll talk.
each other's point of view and agreeing, we say seeing things eye to eye.
So you might not see eye to eye on certain things, and that might complicate the relationship.
So that's something to consider.
Another negative could be that you probably have different habits, different customs.
from your spouse, if they're from another country, and things like your schedule, your daily schedule, might be vastly different.
And something's vastly different.
That means it's very different.
So one of the hardest things for people to adjust to, I know this because I've dealt with this myself, and I've talked to many people who have had to deal with this.
One of the hardest things to adjust to when you're in another country or You have to deal with this difference in schedules is The timing of your meals when you eat breakfast lunch dinner or whatever meal This is really hard for people to adjust to it might not seem like a big issue But trust me, I've talked to many people
And I think we can all agree that this is something that's hard to change.
If you grew up your whole life with a more Latin American meal schedule, I'm not saying all Latin American countries have the schedule, but it's more of a thing in Latin America to have a bigger lunch.
That's your biggest meal of the day.
It's kind of in the mid afternoon, it's not early, maybe it's at 2 or 3 or 3 30 or whatever.
If that is what you did your whole life, it's probably not going to be easy to come to the US and switch your schedule entirely and have your lunch at 12 30 or whatever and then have your biggest meal be...
Dinner and then eat that at like 5.30 or 6 or something That's a very different schedule and it's hard to get used to so these different habits It can be hard When it comes to marriages because you have to decide who's habit is gonna rain supreme This means that That habit dominates me who's habit rain supreme
is gonna adjust to the other person's habit or schedule or whatever.
And this isn't just for meals, it's for a lot of things.
Money habits, right?
How you spend or save or invest your money.
This can be very different depending on the country that you're from.
So that's something that you have to work out with your spouse.
how you're going to reconcile these differences in these different habits.
Another negative might be in-laws, so it might be very hard to connect with your in-laws and see eye-to-eye with your in-laws.
If they come from a very different culture, they might not agree with how you are living your life with their daughter or their son.
because their daughter or son has adapted to your culture now that might cause some issues with them, their families, so you can imagine that that might cause some issues right now.
So that can be a negative and then even if you like your spouse's culture, their customs, maybe you can adapt easily to them.
your own friends and your own family might not like their culture, their customs.
So it might be harder for your family and your friends to maybe connect it, get used to your spouse.
So those are some of the negatives I was able to think of.
I'm not saying that all of those things terrible and that they always cause problems.
But...
about the good in the bad, the positives and negatives when it comes to this, I'll give some examples from my own intercultural marriage and just talk in general about this topic.
I'm sure you'll find this interesting and some of you might be in an intercultural marriage, so some of you might be able to identify...
I'm just trying to be honest and say that there are some things that are harder when it comes to intercultural marriages.
But now let me talk about the positives because there are a lot of positives when it comes to intercultural marriages.
I'm definitely someone who can talk a lot about this I've been blessed with all of these positive things as well.
For me, the positives greatly
outweigh the negatives when something outweighs something else.
This means that it is bigger or more significant than the other thing.
So for me, the positives greatly outweigh the negatives.
So I'm definitely not complaining and I focus on positives.
So one of the biggest positives about marrying someone from a middle country is
that it opens up your world.
When I compare myself to other people here in the US, other Americans that I know, I usually have a much broader perspective than they do.
I'm able to see things differently than them.
I've had a lot of experience in places that are very different.
from the U.S.
So that really helps broaden my perspective.
It really helps me see things from different angles.
Whereas people here in the U.S. that have never left the country, for example, they probably don't see things in that way.
So that's a good thing for me.
I'd like the fact that my person...
perspective has changed and I can see things differently now.
For me that's a positive.
That's something that has benefited my life in general.
I guess related to that, another thing that has brought into my perspective is that I have traveled more.
That is often the case when you're in intercultural marriage.
get the chance to travel because you go to the other person's country, not always, but in many cases you travel to your spouse's country to spend time with their family and to just be in their hometown or whatever.
And so that's great.
I think most of us, all of us, like traveling.
So it's cool to have...
that opportunity to travel more.
You have an excuse to travel.
I have an excuse to go to Mexico.
My wife's from there.
You need to visit her family.
She needs to go back and be in Mexico for a little bit.
So it's a good excuse for me to go and travel to Mexico.
So I really like that.
That's a huge benefit.
Of course, learning a new language is another positive.
I know I mentioned the language barrier has a negative thing.
However, it's also a positive because you get to experience a new language, learn this new language, hopefully.
Of course, not everyone does this when they marry someone from a country.
But you can do this.
This is a choice that you have.
You have it.
a great reason and probably a really good motivation to do this.
And if you do it, it changes your life.
If you learn a language, especially the language of your spouse, this changes your life.
It really does.
It broadens your perspective.
I'm still using that same phrase.
It broadens your perspective.
It helps your brain, of course.
It helps you communicate in different ways.
It helps you when you travel, when you travel to that country.
And it just adds a lot to your life when you can learn the language of your spouse.
And you can communicate with them multiple languages.
I think that's great.
I think it's cool.
I communicate to my wife in Spanish and in English.
with some of these things that I say here.
So I'm sure this will be an interesting topic.
And like I mentioned in the last episode, if you want my help to improve your pronunciation, then make sure to join my membership and become a listening time super member, family member, or VIP.
So you can get my pronunciation training.
And in these different seminars and training videos that I have related to pronunciation.
It's something that I'm very thankful that I have.
I'm thankful that my wife was very patient with me while I was learning Spanish, which really helped me.
And now I'm reaping the benefits of that at this point.
When you reap the benefits of something, we're saying that you are collecting or receiving the benefits of something.
And now I'm reaping the benefits of something.
So that's another positive.
Another one that I was able to think of is that you're able to learn to communicate better with people who are different from you.
This is something that can be hard for people, especially if they don't have a lot of experience with people from other cultures.
If you're married to someone from another country, this really teaches you.
to communicate well with people who are different because if you're married to someone from another country, another culture, of course, they're different.
So this is a great skill that you learn and I feel like this really helped me as a teacher and I think it helps me now even just making this podcast.
It helps me...
think and maybe see things from the perspective of the people who listen to me from different countries and I feel like I can communicate more effectively to people from different countries because of my experience with my wife.
So that's a huge benefit for me considering what I do for a living.
I make this content for people who are from all over the world who are very different from me.
So, that's a great thing that I was able to gain from my intercultural marriage.
Another positive is that you learn a lot from the other person and their culture.
You can learn lessons that are harder to learn about your culture.
because maybe in the other person's culture they think differently about this thing and when you're exposed to their way of thinking this can help you maybe get better in some areas of your own life or your own way of thinking and for me I think about the topic of stress.
being content.
These are things that I can definitely value in my wife and in a lot of people in her culture.
They might have a different relationship to stress and contentment and all of that.
And I'm able to learn more about how to get better in these areas based on my wife.
and her background, her culture, and speaking of contentment, I'm actually gonna talk about this in the next episode, so make sure you don't miss that.
These are things that I've learned about for my wife, like I said, and she's helped me be a better person in different areas.
So that's something that...
definitely happen in the context of intercultural marriage.
And one last positive I wanted to mention is that it's really exciting and interesting to have this type of marriage.
It's very interesting, of course, not everything is easy, but it's exciting.
It really is exciting and interesting to have this type of relationship.
It's not for everyone, of course, but...
For people that have had a successful intercultural marriage, they know what I'm talking about.
It just makes life pretty interesting when you're with someone who is from a different culture or different background, but you're still able to come together and be a great team, have a great marriage.
I love it.
So for me, this is a big positive.
You learn all about the different sound patterns in English, and you learn to identify the correct sounds, and you see what sounds you're making that aren't native sound.
And I help you fix those issues.
So if you're interested in all of that, make sure to go down below and click on the link to check out my membership, and of course my advanced episodes are available for listening.
So those are some of the negatives and positives.
I think I want to end by saying that this type of marriage probably isn't recommended for most people because of course it presents a lot of challenges, difficulties that most people probably don't want to face when it comes to marriage.
But for some people who are willing to...
overcome the challenges of an intercultural marriage.
If they're able to find someone who matches with them well, even though they're from a different background, maybe a different country even, this can be a really great thing.
But like I said, for most people, this probably isn't going to be the first choice that they probably aren't going to.
Want to look for a spouse somewhere else in the world.
It probably makes more sense to get married to someone from their own culture their own country Right, so I'm not trying to convince all of you to go Marry someone from another country like I said.
It's probably not recommended for most people I think that most people would probably benefit from having a less complicated marriage
Let's say less complicated in terms of culture, country, legal processes and language, differences, things like that, of course.
But I hope this episode was interesting for you and I hope that it was good practice for your listening and I want to remind you that if you want my pronunciation training then make sure to join my membership and we count this anytime, super member or any of the higher tiers and you'll get that practice.
I'll help you improve your pronunciation.
and see what the differences are between your pronunciation and native speakers pronunciation.
And my advanced episodes are also available for listening time family members.
So the link to my membership is down below and the link to my US conversations podcast is down below as well.
I highly recommend that you use that to start listening to two people talking, two people having a conversation.
Eventually you'll want to be able to
family members and listening to IPs as well.
And you have the link down below for my US Conversations podcast.
If you want to practice with my conversations with other people from around the US, it's a lot of fun.
It's great practice.
So the link to sign up is also down below.
All right, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about intercultural marriages.
Like I mentioned, we're going to talk about the positives and negatives.
I want to start with the negatives.
I think it's always good to end on a good note.
We use the phrase end on a good note to mean that you end with the positives.
You end on a positive thing, positive topic, or whatever.
I want to end on a good note.
So let's start with the negatives and then we'll talk about the positives Intercultural marriages have things that are great about them and things that are a lot harder than normal marriages things that normal marriages don't really have They don't have these issues, right?
So what are some of these negatives?
the
and most obvious one, this isn't for 100% of intercultural marriages, but for many of them it is, and that is the language barrier.
So if you speak a different native language than your husband or wife speaks, then of course there's going to be this language barrier if you don't speak each other's language natively.
Right?
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 162 of the Listening Time Podcasts.
I hope you're all doing fantastic today.
I'm a little bit tired because I just came back from run, so hopefully I'm not too out of breath to record this episode.
By the way, the phrase out of breath refers to when...
and you're having trouble breathing because you're really tired, your lungs are working really hard, like right after you run, for example.
So I hope I'm not too out of breath, but you might be able to hear me breathing a little bit harder than me.
But I'm ready for today's episode.
This time we're going to talk about life in the future.
So I thought it would be...
the word remote refers to something that is far away and isolated.
So even in the most remote places people watch our movies and listen to our music and things like that and that's part of globalization and one thing I think will happen is I think that travel will be easier in some ways.
So I think that there are
are always projects that are in progress to create new trains and high speed railways and new modes of transportation, new ways to get places faster.
I think that that's the trend.
50 years ago we couldn't reach as many places as we could reach now.
with the same amount of ease.
When we say the word ease, we're referring to something being easy, right?
So there wasn't the same ease when it came to going to distant places 50 years ago or 70 years ago as there is now and there are more ways in which different sea.
cities are connected and even different countries are connected.
So I think that in the future this will continue and travel will be even easier in that way.
It might be harder in some other ways, politically speaking.
Maybe there are problems with borders and, you know, wars and political issues, things like that.
but in terms of the mode of transportation, the different ways people can get to different places, I think that will be easier.
And I think that more places around the world will be open for tourism as countries develop more.
So today, there are many countries that can't really receive many tourists because...
these countries are very poor or have major political issues or just don't have the infrastructure to receive a lot of tourists maybe they don't have major airports or whatever it might be.
I think that a few decades or whatever some of these places will have developed enough so that they can.
receive turists, so that means there will be more places to go to more travel destinations people will discover new places, so that will also contribute to globalization and One thing that is maybe a negative about globalization is everything gets smaller and closer and more familiar
and I think people tend to start to become more and more similar to each other.
Right?
The younger generations today in different countries are probably more similar to one another than our grandparents generations were in different countries.
So I think as the years go by and globalization continues...
people become more and more and more similar and that kind of makes things a little less interesting in some ways.
That's not a huge negative of course, but for someone like me who's really interested in seeing different and unique things, that can be a little more boring when everyone sees like they're exactly the same or not exactly the same, but they're...
very similar.
That's a little less interesting, but obviously that's a small negative.
And another thing related to globalization that I think will definitely happen is that English will become a stronger and stronger presence around the world and minor languages will start to disappear.
a fun idea to do an episode about some predictions that I'll make about what life might be like in the future, maybe a few decades from now or so.
And so, these are just guesses.
I'm sure I'll be wrong on a lot of these, but I think it's a fun idea to just imagine what things will be like.
little by little and some smaller languages will completely disappear and will never be spoken again unfortunately.
I don't think this will happen to other major languages.
For example, Spanish is not going to disappear anytime soon, right?
French is not going to disappear anytime soon.
So I'm not talking about those languages, right?
I'm talking about
languages that have a very small group of people that speak them, or even languages that are not that small, but the people in those countries are starting to speak English more, more.
That will also contribute to those languages kind of dying out over time.
But I think that English will grow up.
stronger every year and I think that the other major languages will still have many speakers and I think that they'll be okay.
But English is guaranteed to be the global language in my opinion.
I know some people have different opinions about this.
Some people say that it will be Mandarin Chinese in the future or some other language.
But I disagree.
I think that English is already so embedded all around the world in different industries the internet travel It's so important already that it will be very hard to Reverse that or for another language to take its place I'm not saying
will never happen in the future.
It might, but I'm just thinking a few decades in the future.
I think that English is 100% going to be the global language, but I think that people will still be learning English.
I don't think that a few decades from now, everyone will speak English.
All the young people around the world will have great English.
I don't think that's the case.
I think more people will speak English and there will be more people who don't need to learn English actively.
But I think that there are many places around the world right now that have a very low English level.
And that's not going to completely change in just a few decades because that usually...
takes time.
And so I think that people still be learning English.
I'll still have a reason to make English content.
I think maybe I'll have to focus more on the countries and the places that have a lower English level, I don't know, but I'm sure that people will still be learning English in a few decades.
But I think that English will be...
even stronger presence around the world than it is now.
And another thing that I think will happen in the future is I think that many jobs will change.
I think most people would agree with me about this topic.
So I don't think there will be as many jobs that are just normal service jobs where you're just serving.
a customer maybe a cashier or someone who is bringing food to your table or whatever.
I think that a lot of these jobs will become automated in the future and maybe robots will do them.
Who knows?
But I don't think that this means that everyone is going to lose their jobs in the future.
I don't want to nuke it.
sound like this is the end of work for everyone.
I know that some people push that narrative, but that's not what I'm saying here.
By the way, when someone pushes a narrative, this means that they are promoting their idea, their perspective, their opinion about something.
So I'm not trying to push that narrative, but I think that many jobs will change.
if they continue with the way they're going right now, all the trends that we're seeing.
Remember that a trend is like a tendency towards some direction.
Okay, so there can be fashion trends.
There can be trends in a certain sphere of business or whatever.
So
and we won't need the same types of workers then that we do now.
So for example, when I go to the grocery store, I almost always try to go to the self-checkout lane and not the checkout with the cashier and not everyone does this, I think that
Many people will still always prefer to have a cashier person.
But I think that a lot of people will change to self-check out, for example.
And so we won't need as many cashiers maybe.
So I'm not saying that that job will completely disappear.
But what I'm saying is that maybe more employees at that.
store will be needed to help with the computers and the machines, the self-checkout, and there will be problems with those things.
So maybe the employees will need to focus less on the customer service aspect of the job and focus more on fixing things or maintaining things.
I think you get my...
point.
Right?
So there will be a lot more jobs related to technology and automated processes, making sure those are going well.
And for example, cybersecurity, that's a huge one.
I think that we will need a lot of cybersecurity workers in the future to help keep things safe.
and protect things, but I think that the necessary skilled trades will still exist.
I'm sure this, for example, when I say a skilled trade, I'm referring to things like plumbers and electricians and mechanics and people like that.
These people will always be needed.
These people will always have...
business and I think that these are really important jobs so I don't think those are going anywhere anytime soon.
I think that we will need plenty of plumbers, plenty of electricians, plenty of mechanics, plenty of landscapers, you know, all those types of professions, right?
And one other...
thing that I think will happen in the future.
This is just my prediction, my opinion.
I could be wrong, but I think that overall in general people's health will decline and treatments will multiply.
So what am I talking about here?
Well, I think that we have already seen this.
over many years now that people's habits have gotten worse.
Not in every way, of course.
Some things have really gotten much better.
For example, like sanitation and plumbing, things like that.
That extended our lives and made our health better drastically.
That's probably the greatest...
invention in terms of human health ever, right?
It is clean, running water and waste removal and sanitation and plumbing and drainage, washing hands and everything related to sanitation.
That stuff has definitely helped our health.
But when it comes to other things, other habits.
that people have.
I think that things have gotten worse, right?
People have gotten worse when it comes to their posture, sitting down for many hours every day in front of a computer, looking at screens all day, right?
Not needing to walk as much and...
I'll predict what things might look like if our current trends continue into the future.
So this should be a fun one and I hope you find it interesting.
And remember that you can sign up for my advanced podcast episodes if you feel ready to practice with English spoken fast, English spoken at enormous speed.
So if you sign up to become a listening time family member...
not moving around as much.
All of these types of habits have probably gotten worse all over the world over the years.
And of course these things lead to poor health outcomes.
An outcome is a result.
Okay, so there are poor outcomes when you have these bad habits and peoples diet.
food that people eat has gotten worse over the years.
If you look at many traditional diets around the world, in communities that are more isolated and don't have a lot of contact with industrialization, you see that their diets are much better and their health is much better than just the average person.
who lives in a big city.
Right?
And that's because as our cities have developed, our processes have developed, we've made our food worse and we don't eat the same quality food that we ate in the past.
Right?
So I think that as time goes on...
This will probably get worse in many countries.
As many countries maybe develop their processes and their industries more, it will be the same thing everywhere.
We'll have mass production of food and huge farms with practices that aren't the best for health.
Right?
And...
preservation techniques that aren't healthy, right?
And ingredients will be added preservation, flavor, different things that aren't healthy.
So I think that this is trend and so I think people's health will get worse.
I think that unfortunately that will probably happen.
I might be wrong and I hope...
I'm from, but that's my prediction.
And I think that there will be a lot of medications and treatments that are vented due to these issues, right?
Some of them might be good.
And I'm sure a lot of them might not be good.
A lot of them might have a lot of side effects or whatever.
So I'm sure there will be a big market for...
treating our declining health, unfortunately.
And I'm sure that there will be some breakthroughs in curing certain serious conditions.
The word breakthrough refers to when there is suddenly this big change or discovery during some process and it really helps things move a lot faster or changes things completely.
So, I really hope and I think there will be some breakthroughs in curing some serious conditions, serious illnesses.
But I also think that we as just independent people will have to put in the effort to do the research and find out about these breakthroughs, these different possibilities.
treatments, insurers, because we can already see that with some major diseases, for example, cancer.
A lot of people assume that cancer is a death sentence, which means that if you have cancer that means you're going to die.
But obviously that's not true, right?
Many people have had cancer and haven't died.
And many people have actually...
cured, serious cancers, and you might not ever hear about this if you don't actually do the research yourself and find out about these different types of treatments that have been developed and different doctors that are doing special things that aren't conventional maybe.
And so there are a number promising...
You'll receive two new advanced podcast episodes every month.
So the link to sign up is down below in the description.
That's patreon.com slash listen time.
And you can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast if you want to practice with two people talking instead of just one.
I actually just recorded a bonus US Conversations episode the other day with my
treatments and doctors, we have done great things when it comes to treating cancer, but these aren't widely known.
And there is actually, unfortunately, a lot of opposition to these types of treatments and doctors.
And so you might never hear about them because they're not mainstream and they're not...
be accepted practices or whatever.
So I think that the same thing might happen in the future.
Might have some breakthroughs, hearing some major diseases, but it won't be that suddenly everyone knows about it and gets this cure if they need it and everything is good.
It probably won't be like that unfortunately for some diseases, but I'm hopeful that...
There will be some breakthroughs, hearing, some major conditions.
But unfortunately, overall, I think that health will decline around the world.
And I hope I'm wrong, but it's what I'm seeing.
So that's kind of a negative prediction that I have about the future.
But I'll stop there.
I talked about a few things and I'm sure you might agree with me about some of them,
about some of the others, but no one knows really.
I guess we'll have to wait and see.
And remember that you can sign up for my advanced podcast episodes if you want to practice with fast English.
If you become a listening time family member, you'll get two new advanced episodes every month.
The link is down below in the description.
And if you want my US Conversations podcast to practice listening.
dad.
So that was a fun one and for those of you that have already signed up, I hope that you enjoyed that special episode with my dad and I think that this US Conversations Podcast is great practice for those of you who want to reach that level where you can understand more than one person talking.
So the link to sign up is also down below.
That's patreon.
on dot com slash us conversations.
And of course you have the transcript for this episode down below as well.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Alright, let's talk about life in future.
What are some things that might happen in the next few decades or so?
Well, the first thing I want to talk about is globalization.
So, I think that the world is already very globalized, which means that we're very connected.
People in different countries, different cities, different states.
They are connected, even though we're not all living in the same place.
So, uh...
the globe, the world seems like a smaller place now because of this connection, this globalization, things are transmitted and go around in different countries very easily.
Like for example, our movies and TV shows here in the US are watched everywhere, even in the most remote places on the planet.
By the way,
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor in your Listening to Episode 173 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're doing well and I hope that these episodes have helped you reach your goals in your English learning journey.
And I mention goals because that's what...
But we're going to talk about in today's episode, we're going to talk about creating goals for yourself and specifically creating many goals.
I'll call them.
And this is an idea that I got from running, actually.
There's nothing revolutionary about this idea.
I'm sure many of us have thought of.
up for my US Conversations Podcast so you can practice with my conversations that I have with other native speakers from around the US.
So make sure to sign up for that if you're interested.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about creating mini goals.
So...
Like I said, this isn't a new revolutionary idea.
This is something that a lot of people talk about, but because I got that idea from my run, and I don't think I've talked much about this before, I want to talk a little bit about how I do this in my language learning and...
how you can do it in your language learning journey.
And first of all, let me talk about why these mini goals work, why they're effective.
Well, of course, one reason is that we break the goal up, we divide it into smaller goals.
So it's actually a little bit easier to achieve goals because you don't just have
one big goal you have several smaller goals.
So of course you can achieve goals better like this because there are more goals to achieve and they're easier to achieve.
But really the reason why these mini goals are so effective is because they provide us with the satisfaction of.
knowing that we're achieving goals, we're progressing, and it gives us motivation to keep on going, because we feel like we're actually accomplishing things.
So, for example, on my run, if I only viewed the end point as my goal, it didn't feel like I was accomplishing that much.
as I was running because that endpoint was still far away.
But when I created those mini goals, like, okay, just reach that tree right there.
Okay, just reach that car next.
Okay, just reach that sign next.
Then I actually felt like I was achieving things because I was achieving those mini goals I was getting.
one goal closer to my end goal and that really motivated me and it made the process seem less difficult, less daunting.
Remember the word daunting refers to something that is intimidating or hard or a little scary because of maybe how difficult it is.
So my...
my overall goal of reaching the end point of my run was not as daunting anymore because I could see I was making progress with these mini goals.
I completed this goal and then I completed the second goal and the third goal and there's something in that that really helps our brain.
It helps us feel like we're progressing.
motivate us, I think.
So how can we do this with our language learning?
Well, for me, for example, I have the goal of being fluent in French.
And when I say fluent, I'm using my definition of fluent.
Everyone has a different definition of this word.
What I mean is that I want to be able to have come.
conversations in French very easily without much interruption at all, just being able to interact comfortably and normally in French.
I'm not referring to not making mistakes and sounding really really good or having a perfect accent.
I'm not talking about that.
I'm just referring to.
about this before.
But I was running, I think last week, and this idea came to me based on my run from that day.
So what happened was that when I was running and I had gotten through maybe three quarters of my run, I got really tired, I really wanted to...
being able to have comfortable fluid conversations with native speakers without any problem.
So that's my goal and that's kind of a daunting goal because I'm still kind of far from that.
I can have conversations in French but they're definitely not fluid, comfortable conversations.
I still have a long way to go.
So
That goal is kind of daunting.
However, if I break it up into smaller goals, then it doesn't feel as daunting and I feel like I'm making progress.
So in addition to just my ultimate goal of the fluent French, I need to set smaller goals, for example.
I already achieved one of these goals, which was...
be able to have a conversation completely in French with someone who did not actually speak English.
I actually did this earlier this week.
I talked to someone in French and that person didn't speak English at all and I did pretty well in the conversation I think.
So that gives me motivation because I achieved that goal.
of being able to talk to someone in French a whole time in French and they don't even speak English.
So that's a great thing that I was able to do and I can say great, I achieved that goal.
What's the next one?
And I create another goal after that.
Right, so you can think about what type of goals.
you have that are smaller, that can help you get closer to your ultimate goal of being fluent in English, for example.
And one really important note here is that you want to make these mini goals achievement based.
What do I mean by that?
Well, you want to have a goal that is based on you.
accomplishing something and not just a goal, for example, to study for 30 minutes tomorrow.
Right?
That's a goal, but that's not an achievement-based goal.
So the reason why I say this is that, for example, if I just have the goal to run for 30 minutes three times a week, I might not actually-
ever run longer distances in those 30 minutes.
I might just run and then I look at the clock and then 30 minutes have passed and then I stop and I'm not guaranteed to run further every time.
So goals that are just based on the amount of time that you do something for.
don't work as well for these mini goals in my opinion.
I think that we should make goals that are based on achieving something because this also helps you feel like you are progressing like you're getting closer to your goal.
And that's not always the case if your goal is just to do something for a certain amount of time.
Right?
So
So what can be another achievement-based goal for language learning?
Like I said, talking to a native speaker and they don't speak your native language and you have a whole conversation with them.
That's a cool goal, I think.
Another mini goal could be to understand a whole 10 minute video in English.
your case with the subtitles and be able to understand everything.
That would be an interesting goal.
And then maybe after that you have another goal of being able to understand a similar video, but without subtitles, for example.
So that can be the next goal after that.
And then maybe you have the goal after that to be able to...
to stop.
My body was telling me to stop, but I actually really wanted to finish the run even more.
So I was trying to find ways to be able to finish the run without stopping.
And what I did was that instead of just focusing on how far I still had to run.
understand a conversation between two people who are speaking English and first you have the goal to understand a conversation with subtitles between two people and then after that you have the goal of understanding a whole conversation between two people without having any subtitles and of course you can use my US Conversations podcast that
goal.
So these are very simple, clear, mini goals that you can set for yourself that can help make you feel like you're making progress towards your ultimate goal.
Because once you can understand a video with subtitles, that means that you're actually becoming a better listener and you know more words and then when you
understand a video without subtitles.
That means that your listening is getting even better, you're noticing more details, more sounds, and then when you can understand a conversation between two people, now your listening is getting even better, it means that you know even more vocabulary and more slang and expressions and things like that.
And then...
when you can understand a conversation without subtitles, then you're doing really well.
You're getting much further in your progress to becoming a fluent English speaker.
So each of those mini goals takes you closer to your ultimate goal, right?
So those are things that you can set for yourself that aren't.
achievable that can help you divide your big goal up to smaller goals to make sure that you stay motivated and you feel like you're accomplishing things.
That's what's really cool.
One other type of mini goal that I've been setting for myself recently with my conversations that I've been having French is that before
my conversation with the teacher that I'm talking to.
I look at the corrections from my last conversation with them and I choose a couple of those corrections, things that I said wrong in the last class and I really focus on saying those things right in this class.
I didn't used to do that in the past.
In the past I would just never...
at my corrections from my previous class, I would just ignore them and just go to the next conversation and make the same mistakes again.
Now I have the goal of choosing maybe one or two of my mistakes from the last class and I really try to say those correctly in the next one and I've really enjoyed this.
It's really helped me.
feel like I'm making progress because I can see the difference between the last class when I said them wrong and then now this class when I'm saying them right I can see the difference I've achieved this mini goal and now I know that I'm a little bit closer to my ultimate goal so that's one that I just thought of that has been really motivated.
for me recently.
Correcting one or two errors each time from my last class to this class, right?
So that's another cool mini goal that keeps me motivated.
And really you can come up with all kinds of goals for yourself, for language learning, for your English learning journey.
I think that if you do this, you're going to feel like you're...
Making more progress you're gonna feel like you're getting closer to your goal It really helps you feel like you're taking those steps towards the ultimate goal.
So this is something that's really useful as a language learner and This concept is also useful in a lot of other areas of life as well I thought of just a few like for example
to reach the end.
I started creating these mini goals for myself by just looking at a point that was a little ahead of where I was currently like I would see a big tree 50 meters away and I would say okay I just need to make it to that tree.
I would just focus
example with your finances.
Instead of just having the ultimate goal of, oh, I need more money, or I want to be a lot more comfortable financially, or whatever, you can create these mini goals that will help you reach your ultimate goal.
For example, if you're in debt right now, you...
have multiple debts, multiple credit cards, loans that you need to pay off.
First, maybe you choose the easiest debt to pay off, and that's your first minigold.
And then you work really hard to pay off that first debt, that easiest debt.
And then you pay it off, and then you'll feel good.
Like, wow, I just paid off one of my debts.
I used to have five debts, now I only have four debts.
And that feels really good.
It feels like you just achieved something significant and you're making progress.
And then you focus on the next debt, the next easiest one.
And then you make that your next mini goal.
Then you pay that off and that feels great.
You've paid off two of your different debts.
Now you work towards...
the next one.
So you can see how that can be much more helpful for you and it can make it easier to achieve your ultimate goal because if you just think of the ultimate goal and you think of where you are now financially, that ultimate goal can seem very daunting.
If you have five different debts to pay off, that probably doesn't feel good.
very good and it feels like you're really far from achieving your goal.
But if you break it up into mini goals, then you can feel like your ultimate goal is more attainable.
Something that's attainable is something that you can reach.
So it's more attainable because there are many steps.
that you take to achieve it.
First, you take the first step, and then the next one, and then the next one.
This is a much easier way for us to actually not become overwhelmed by this big goal and to feel like we're making progress.
So you can apply this concept to your financial situation.
How about losing weight?
If you're still...
50 pounds overweight, it can feel like a daunting goal to have to lose 50 pounds.
That might feel like a lot.
But if you break it up into mini goals, like, okay, I want to lose 5 pounds, right?
And then you achieve that goal and you feel great because took that first step and then you create your next mini goal.
And then you lose another 5 pounds and you feel great.
rate because you just achieved your second goal, etc.
Keep going like that and losing weight and then eventually you'll reach your goal, right?
Or maybe you want to lift heavier weight in the gym, you want to get stronger.
Of course you don't just put all of that heavy weight on at beginning you the...
move up little by little.
This week your goal is to lift 30 pounds and then next week it's to lift 35 pounds etc.
and these mini goals help you feel satisfied that you're achieving things.
You're getting closer, you're making progress and this is very motivating.
So I think you get the point.
These mini goals can really help you.
us on our journey to eventually achieve our ultimate goal.
So I hope that this episode got you thinking about how you can implement these mini goals in your English learning or other areas of your life.
And maybe one of your mini goals with English is to be able to understand one of my advanced podcast episodes with the
on the tree and then I would reach the tree pretty quickly and then I would create another mini goal and say okay I need to reach that car over there.
Just need to reach that point and it wouldn't be too far or too hard to reach it.
Reach that car and I did that over and over and
subtitles first and then without the subtitles.
Well, I recommend that you implement those mini goals.
Those are great goals that can help take you to your ultimate goal.
So if you want those advanced episodes, make sure to sign up to become a listening time family member.
Link is down below.
And then after that, your next mini goal can be to understand one of my US conversational.
episodes with the transcript and then eventually without the transcript.
So if those are mini goals that you'd like to implement then make sure to go down and click on the link to sign up for us conversations on campus.
And if you like this podcast please share it, please send it to your friends or family members who are learning English and would find this podcast useful.
until eventually my last mini goal was reaching the finish line.
So instead of focusing on how far I needed to run to reach the end, I broke that goal up.
In other words, I divided that goal into smaller mini goals that really helped me finish the run.
I don't.
know if I would have finished it if I hadn't done that.
And when I did that, I said, this is a great topic to talk about in a listening time episode because it's something that can help people with their language learning and in other areas of our lives, right?
So I'm sure this will be an interesting episode, a helpful episode for...
Hopefully all of you today and remember that if you have trouble understanding native speakers when they speak fast but you can understand me pretty well in this podcast Then I recommend that you sign up for my membership so that you can get my listening practice seminars This is my specialized training that helps you notice and recognize
different, difficult sound patterns in English, things that make it hard to understand fast English.
So I help you train with those seminars and of course if you become a listening time family member you'll get my advanced podcast episodes in which I speak fast.
So the link to sign up is down below and you also have the link down below to sign up.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 152 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great.
You might be able to hear that the birds are chirping outside.
We use the word chirp to refer to the sound that birds make.
when they sing.
So the birds are chirping and I think you've probably heard that in several of my episodes.
I hope that you don't mind.
I like it.
I think that it adds some good background noise and whenever I hear birds chirping in the morning it motivates me, it makes me
makes the difference.
What you really need to do is have discipline and just do things every day when you're supposed to do them whether or not you feel motivated and whether or not you want to do them just do them and then you'll see the results eventually and and obviously there's a lot of truth.
to this.
I'm not denying this at all, but that YouTuber that I was watching in French see offered this opinion that even though we can all agree that discipline is important, motivation is really important and sometimes even more important than discipline or...
at least in many situations it's as important as discipline.
And I started thinking about this and I was thinking about my Italian challenge that I just completed and I thought about how true this really is how true it is that motivation is oftentimes equally as important or more.
important sometimes than discipline.
So I want to talk about a few areas my life in which motivation is equally as important or sometimes more important than discipline.
And so this kind of goes against the predominant idea in the personal development world.
The word predominant refers to some.
thing that has more authority or is more common.
So I'm going against the predominant idea here.
But again, I'm not trying to say that discipline is less important.
It's not important.
Of course not.
Most of you know by now that I really appreciate discipline and I really try to be a disciplined person.
This is...
extremely important, but I don't think that we should downplay the importance of motivation to downplay something means to underappreciate it and make it seem less important than it is.
So I think we need to value motivation just like we value discipline.
So let me talk about
four different areas in my life and maybe in your life as well in which motivation is extremely important.
So first of all, with language learning, I've already talked about this, I talked about it in the last two episodes.
So I'll just kind of go quickly through this one.
But during my 100-day Italian challenge, I was motivated for the first 50 days because
I thought that I might continue on with Italian after this challenge, but around day 50, I decided that I wasn't going to continue on with Italian, and so I lost motivation for the second half of that challenge.
So during the first 50 days, I learned a lot, I improved a ton, and during 갑 medicine, I learned it very quickly that there isn't any other practice in this experience, so I still haven't.
the second 50 days, I didn't improve that much.
However, I was super disciplined.
I studied virtually every day.
I think there was one day when I couldn't because a lot of stressful circumstances and things that were happening that day.
But I basically studied.
Every day I was really organized, I followed very specific routine.
I was extremely disciplined throughout this whole challenge.
However, during the second half I wasn't motivated.
And what happened?
Well, when I was listening to things, I wasn't really paying much attention.
I was in my mind with somewhere else.
With you.
I want to have a good day and just enjoy that morning and that day.
So it provides a little bit of motivation for me.
And speaking of motivation, we're going to talk about motivation and discipline in today's episode.
I mentioned this in both of the last two episodes.
that phrase in English, your mind is somewhere else to mean that you're distracted.
You're thinking about something else.
So my mind was somewhere else when I was listening.
When I was reading, I wasn't really paying that much attention to what I was reading.
I wasn't focusing on the new words as much.
I wasn't really trying to notice.
and retain these words.
I was kind of just doing the studying just to do it.
I wasn't motivated to really improve a lot because I knew that I wasn't going to continue on with Italian after this.
I was just going to complete this challenge to help other people, but I'm not going to continue.
on with Italian.
So I lost motivation and I wasn't really able to learn as much during those second 50 days even though I was extremely disciplined.
So I want to encourage you to make sure that you're disciplined with your language learning.
Of course, that's really important.
However, you need to...
have goals, it's important to visualize your goals, visualize what you want to accomplish with the language that you're learning, and feed your curiosity, make yourself more curious and interested in the language.
Okay, if you do this, if you focus on really interesting and engaging content, it's going
a huge difference.
You're going to be paying much more attention while you're reading and listening.
And it will seem like a fun and interesting activity and not just a chore that you have to do.
The chore refers to a task that needs to be completed usually at home, like washing the dishes.
For example, so you...
We don't want our language learning to be chore.
We want to have these really interesting and exciting goals and consume interesting and exciting content.
Okay?
All right.
Another area in my life in which I've seen that motivation is equally as important as discipline is working.
out, exercising.
So I remember in 2022, I was living in Mexico and I went to a gym, which was about 10 minutes from my apartment on foot walking.
So I was very disciplined in terms of going to the gym.
I went when I had plenty of work.
to go.
I stuck to my schedule.
We can say you stick to a schedule.
This means that you adhere to it, you follow it.
So I stuck to this schedule.
I went early in the morning.
Sometimes it was still completely dark outside and I walked to the gym early in the morning and I always...
did my workouts.
I was extremely disciplined with my workouts during that year.
However, I wasn't motivated.
I went because I was supposed to go.
That's what I needed to do.
But I wasn't excited to go to the gym.
It wasn't fun for me.
I didn't have specific goals that I was trying to.
accomplish?
No, I wasn't motivated.
I just went in a very disciplined way because that's what I was supposed to do, right?
So what were my results?
I had very little gains.
We like to use the word gains when talking about the gym and working out referring to getting stronger.
I mentioned this topic, but now I want to dedicate a whole episode to this topic because I think it's a really interesting subject to explore in more detail in a deeper way because a lot of people talk about motivation and discipline, especially in the personal
or bigger muscular.
So my gains were minimal and I didn't push myself to lift a heavier weight all the time.
So I wasn't really getting much stronger because I was just lifting the necessary weight and then stopping and then going to the next exercise and I...
repeated that and then went home.
I wasn't motivated to push myself to lift heavier weight and try new exercises, new lifts.
No, I didn't do any of that and so I just went to the gym.
I always went but I didn't really have great results.
I just got a little strong.
I looked a little better probably, but I wasn't progressing that much because I didn't really have the goal to reach a certain weight or lift a certain amount of weight.
I didn't have that motivation behind my exercise.
So discipline is without a doubt extremely important.
when it comes to working out, exercising, using weight, getting stronger, et cetera.
No one will argue that discipline isn't important.
It's extremely important.
However, your results will be minimal if you're not motivated, okay?
You'll improve, you'll see results, but there's a big difference.
between someone who's disciplined and goes to the gym when they should and someone who's disciplined but is also really motivated to get stronger or lose weight or whatever.
So I saw that clear as day when I went to the gym in 2022 that's an area in my life in which I was disciplined but I wasn't motivated.
And so the results weren't that impressive.
Another area in my life and I think everyone's life in which it's important to be motivated not only disciplined is succeeding in your career.
Okay, discipline is very important in this area.
Of course, you need to show up to work every day.
show up on time, do your tasks, meet the deadlines, you need to have discipline in order to be a good worker of course.
However, if you really want to succeed in your career, move up and kind of distance yourself from the competition, motivation is percent.
Motivation is very noticeable when it comes to the workplace.
For example, I can think of certain restaurants, even fast food restaurants, like my favorite fast food restaurant, which is in and out.
When I go there, I notice that more often than not, the employees...
seem to be motivated.
Not just disciplined and not just polite and doing their work.
They seem motivated to give me a good experience, make me feel welcome.
They seem motivated to do their job well and sure a lot of them aren't motivated to get a promotion.
Things like that.
And it makes the experience very different because when I go to other fast food restaurants, that motivation is not there.
I rarely see it and it makes my experience worse.
It's just not good when someone isn't motivated to do their job.
Recently, I had an issue with my car insurance and
development world and maybe some of you like watching videos or reading books related to personal development and so you've probably heard a lot about motivation and discipline and I'm going to offer a slightly different opinion than the opinion that you usually hear when people talk about
the agent that does my insurance, she really helped me out to kind of solve this issue.
And I could see that she was really motivated to help me fix this issue.
She wasn't just doing it because that's her job.
She has to do it.
She really wanted to help me.
She was motivated to do her job well and help her.
client and even though that insurance company doesn't have the lowest rates, in this case rates refers to the prices that I pay, the insurance company doesn't have the lowest rates.
However, because I know my agent is motivated to help me and do her job well, I want to stay with this company, even though...
I might be paying a little bit more.
So you can see how discipline is important, but motivation makes a big difference between different workers.
And if I, the customer, and satisfied, that's going to help these workers get more business, like more money, get higher positions, etc.
And for me, in my life, in my career, I've seen this where when I make content that I'm really motivated to make, I'm excited about the topic that I'm going to talk about, for example, you can really hear the difference.
You can hear it in my voice.
It's more exciting when listening to the episode.
It's more.
interesting, my motivation shows sometimes when I'm talking about topics that I'm really motivated to talk about.
Whereas when I make content that I'm not so motivated to make, it's not that interesting for me.
It's not as nice to listen to, in my opinion.
I don't have that same quality in my voice that...
excitement.
I've noticed this.
I don't know if you've noticed it or not, but I think sometimes you can hear a difference when I'm talking about something that I'm really interested in.
My voice sounds a little different.
It's just a funner experience to listen to.
And I've been trying to tell my wife this because as...
You probably know because I mentioned it in the last couple episodes.
She's doing a Spanish podcast like mine for people that want to learn Spanish.
And this is new for her.
And she's questioning, like, how do I know what topics to talk about?
Things like that.
And I told her, try to talk about topics that are fun for you.
That you're motivated.
to talk about because people will notice this when they listen to you.
They'll appreciate this.
People appreciate your motivation as a worker and when people appreciate that, more people listen, more people buy from you, whatever, and you have more success.
So that's another area in which motivation is very important in my opinion.
And one other bonus area I wanted to talk about this one is counterintuitive.
Most people would think this one is all about discipline, but it's not.
And that is waking up early.
So of course, discipline is key when it comes to waking up early.
This is a really, really important thing.
I'm not denying that.
Of course, however...
I want to add that motivation actually makes it much easier to wake up early even if you're disciplined.
So I'm very disciplined with waking up early.
If I decide I want to wake up early, I do it.
Okay, that's not a problem for me.
However, it's not easy when I actually wake up.
I wake up.
It's difficult.
these two things.
So I think this will be interesting today and before we start remember of course that you can sign up for my advanced podcast episodes if you want to practice with real English spoken fast.
The link will be down below.
You can click on that and sign up to become a listening time family member and you'll get two new advanced episodes every month and
to actually open my eyes and get out of bed and get going.
That's always difficult, even though I'm disciplined with waking up when my alarm wakes me up.
However, when I have something that gives me motivation to start the day, it makes it much easier to wake up.
For example, if I am going hot...
trip that day, it's really easy for me to wake up even at 4am for example.
If I know I'm gonna travel that day and have this exciting trip it's easy to wake up early when my alarm sounds and I remember many years ago I really liked playing golf and I played pretty early in the morning and it was...
really easy for me to wake up early in the morning because I knew I was going to go play golf which was super fun for me.
So if you have something fun or interesting planned it makes waking up early a lot easier at least in my experience.
So one thing that we can do to add this motivation
our discipline and make it easier to wake up early is to do things that are fun or rewarding and maybe do them in the morning so that you're really looking forward to it like when I went to play golf.
Obviously I had to do other things on those days.
I didn't only play golf and that was I probably had to do some other chores or
things that weren't so fun, but because golf was the first thing I was going to do, it made it easy to wake up super early.
Obviously, you're probably not going to be able to schedule all of your fun early in the morning, but maybe you can start the day with something that gives you pleasure, something that is interesting for you to do.
And...
that will help you feel motivated to actually wake up and it will make it easier to stay disciplined and stick to your schedule and be consistent with this discipline is necessary but motivation makes it much easier in my opinion.
All right, so those were some different areas in my life which I've seen that motivation.
is as important or sometimes more important than discipline, but again I want to stress that discipline is extremely important.
I'm not trying to downplay that.
So both of these two things are important in our lives.
I hope this episode was interesting for you and if you feel like you need to challenge yourself more with more difficult content, then make sure to be.
come a listening time family member so you can get my advanced episodes.
The link is down below in the description that's hreon.com slash listening time and you can also sign up for my US conversations podcast to hear my conversations with other English teachers from around the country.
It's really fun.
It's really interesting and it's great practice for listening.
The link is
If you want to practice with two people talking instead of one and you want to learn a lot about the different regions of the United States, then make sure to sign up for my U.S.
Conversations podcast.
The link is also down below the description.
All right, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about motivation and discipline.
So I've been thinking a lot about these two concepts recently because of a video that I saw.
I was watching a video French because I'm learning French and this person was talking about motivation, discipline and he mentioned.
that most people in the personal development world really champion the idea that discipline is much much more important than motivation.
When you champion some idea we're saying that you really support and kind of preach this idea.
This is what you believe.
So many people champion this idea.
And I've heard this many times when I listen to different people, YouTubers, podcasters, whoever, talking about being successful, they talk a lot about how motivation comes and goes.
And this is not what...
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 163 of the Listening Time Podcast.
You might be able to hear that I'm just a little bit sick today, nothing serious, but my whole family got sick.
So we're all dealing with that, but life needs to go on.
And so here I am today.
recording another episode, but I'm happy to talk today in this episode about my language learning plan for the rest of this year.
So at the time of recording this episode, it's still May.
So we're still not halfway through the year.
So I've still got a lot of months of language learning left this year and I mentioned
just kind of alternated between languages, been more casual, and just did it lightly for fun.
I still want to do it for fun, of course, but I want to get more serious about it and actually reach a high level in some different languages.
So I really want to do that with French, and maybe next year I'll get to go to France
I'll be able to talk to people in French.
So that would be nice.
So let me talk about my plan, what I want to do with French for the rest of this year.
So I want to spend about an hour and 15 minutes more or less every day of pleasure listening.
I'll call it.
What I mean by this is I want to listen.
for this amount of time to content that I really like and that's interesting for me and that is maybe not the hardest content because it's in my field of interest or it's related to my work or my goals or whatever however it's going to be native content so me
for native speakers and I'm gonna do this with and without subtitles.
I haven't really figured that out yet but with this portion, this part of my learning plan, I'll probably just keep the subtitles on most of the time and I might spend some of the time reading the subtitles while listening some of the time.
Just listen.
and then if I need to, one guy, don't catch a certain word or something, I'll look down at the subtitles.
By the way, we can say that you catch something or you don't catch something to mean that you didn't hear or understand something well.
If you catch it, you heard it and understood it well and if you didn't catch it, then you didn't hear or understand it.
well.
So if I don't catch something then I can easily look down at the subtitles.
So what's the purpose of this part of my language learning plan?
Well there are a lot of reasons why I want to spend a lot of time doing this.
Of course this is going to help me practice my listening.
It's a lot of listening practice.
I'll also get to read the subtitles so it's a little bit of reading.
to and I hope that I will acquire a lot of words, a lot of phrases and a lot of sounds.
French is a language that is kind of similar to English in the sense that you might understand a sentence when you read it, but when someone says it and you can't see the subtitles or what.
ever, you might misunderstand it because the sounds don't match up very well with the letters.
And this isn't the case in Spanish, for example, or Italian.
With those languages, if I don't understand something, it's probably because I just don't understand the word.
It's not because I can't identify the correct sounds and associate them with a...
correct phrase or whatever, but with French this happens.
So through my listening practice I'm going to be acquiring words, phrases, expressions and sounds.
I'll get more accustomed to what different words and phrases sound like in real life when people say them and not just what they look like when they're written down.
And really the biggest thing with this type of pleasure listening, as I call it, is to keep me engaged, to keep me interested.
When your brain is really interested and engaged, you actually acquire more of the foreign language.
Okay.
If you're really interested and you're almost not even noticing...
a couple episodes ago that I want to focus on my French for the rest of this year and my goal is to reach a B2 level in French by the end of the year.
And someone, a listening time VIP, asked me this question about my advice for learning language and what I did with Italian when I did that challenge.
that you're listening to something in a foreign language because you're just consumed, you're really engaged because of the content that's an optimal state to be in for language acquisition.
So that's why I want to listen for a long time to content that's very interesting for me.
And while I listen I'm gonna
pause and rewind sometimes if I can't understand something and I want to see what they actually said and look at the subtitles or if I hear an interesting word or phrase then I'll definitely pause rewind.
And for the most part I'm not doing too much repetition here just listening to.
a lot of content that is interesting for me and that's the bulk of my listening practice.
When we say that something is the bulk of something else, we're saying that it is a big part or the majority of something else, okay?
So the bulk of my listening practice is this pleasure listening to things.
things that are really interesting for me.
And I'm going to spend a lot of time listening to the same people.
So listen to the same YouTuber or podcaster for multiple episodes, multiple videos.
And I like to do that because it allows me to hear the same words and phrases used because everyone has their own style of speaking.
And so if you listen to...
the same person talk in different contexts, you're going to hear them repeat a lot of their favorite words and expressions and phrases.
So this helps me get repetition of new words and phrases without needing to just listen to the same thing again and again.
So this is kind of what I would call indirect repetition.
So I'll listen to them.
same YouTuber or podcaster for a while and then maybe when I start to get a little board I'll switch to another one and I'm not only going to listen to one person at a time maybe I'll have two podcasts that I listen to and I listen to a lot of episodes of those two podcasts but I don't listen to 50 different podcasts for example so
I stick to the same handful of content creators for my practice.
So that will be the bulk of my listening practice and it's fun, right?
It's not that hard to do that.
And then I'm going to do 15 minutes or so of harder listening practice.
So what I mean by that is I'm going to choose a topic that...
is a little bit outside my compad zone and that will have a lot of new words and phrases and expressions.
So my idea is to watch videos about French history, for example.
So I'm interested in French history.
I like history, but this content will be harder than just watching.
a YouTube video about online business or whatever, right?
This topic, French history, will have a lot of words that I'm unfamiliar with.
I'll have fun with it, but it won't be quite as relaxing as my pleasure listening.
And I'm going to have to pause and rewind a lot more.
So put those.
15 minutes, I'll probably get through a 5 to 10 minute part of a video.
And what's the purpose of this?
Well, I want to challenge myself and listen to harder content, learn more new words, and learn things, not just language, but learn about French history, for example.
One of the reasons why...
And it got me thinking about my plans for French and I talked a little bit about that during that Q&A.
And since then, I modified it a little bit and I think I have more or less my plan for French for the rest of this year.
So I plan on spending maybe two hours a day if I can actively learning and then hopefully...
I'm doing this as well is because I'm going to use repetition with this part of my listening practice.
I'll talk about that in just a minute, but just keep that in mind that this hard listening part, I'm going to do actual repetition with it.
So for you, for example, maybe your pleasure listening is my podcast, listening time podcast, maybe this...
is comfortable for you, you have fun with it.
I hope and you can listen a lot without needing to pause and rewind too much.
And then maybe your hard listening might be my advanced episodes or my US conversations podcast or maybe just some random YouTuber or podcaster who's talking to English speakers.
this will depend on your level.
But that's something that you can incorporate into your language-learning plan to make sure you're challenging yourself.
So if I only listen to the things that are a little more comfortable for me to not really challenging myself, so that's why I want to incorporate this small amount of time every day to doing this.
hard listening.
And then I'm also going to spend 15 minutes, maybe 20 minutes, reading some interesting content as well.
I think it's great to include reading in your language learning and not just listening.
For me, I think that I'll always do more listening than reading.
That's just easier to do and I can do it passively.
as well and it can be a little more engaging because it might not be as hard as reading in a foreign language because reading can be hard.
There is a more formal style when someone writes than when they speak.
So that means it's more refined.
The vocabulary is a little bit different.
It can be less natural.
Whereas when we hear someone speaking, they repeat themselves a lot, use the same words.
They use simple speech a lot.
So reading is a great challenge as well.
And what's the purpose of it?
Well, you're going to get exposure to this more formal language, a more formal register, a more refined language.
definitely a lot of new vocabulary.
And I think it also helps you to notice more details of the language.
So when you see it written down and you're reading it, you're spending time doing that, you might notice things like the spelling of words.
And that's really important when it comes to English and when it comes to French.
Because these languages
hard to write because of the irregular spelling, whereas Spanish is pretty easy to write because the spelling was very regular.
So for me, if I spend some time reading in French, it will help me notice the spelling of different words and it will help me notice other little details as well that I might not pick up on as easily.
if I'm just listening.
By the way, when you pick up on something, this means that you recognize it and understand it.
You hear it, right, or when you see it.
So this will help me pick up on certain details that I might miss when I'm listening.
And in general, I like reading.
So I want to incorporate some of this into my language learning.
However, I'm not going to spend a ton of time reading.
Just me personally, I want to spend more time listening.
But I think that if a language learner wants to spend a lot of time reading in a little less time listening, that's OK as well.
I think there are benefits to both.
But for right now, I want to focus a little more on listening than on reading.
But I want to do both.
And I want to focus a little more on listening than on reading.
doing a good amount of passive listening as well.
So I haven't started this really.
I'm gonna start this next week, but I think that even though I haven't proved that this plan will be really good, I'm pretty sure that it will help me improve and reach a higher level in French and maybe you'll want to have fun.
And with what I listen to during the hard listen session and what I read during this reading session, I'm going to do repetition with this.
So if I start today, read something and I listen to some hard content, tomorrow I want to repeat those things.
I want to read the same thing and then listen to that hard.
content again so that I can add a little bit of direct repetition to my language learning.
I think it's great to repeat things and listen and read things more than once.
And so by doing this, I'll see those new words that I saw yesterday again.
And they'll be reinforced in my mind.
When something is reinforced...
That means that it is strengthened.
Okay?
So, some of these new words and phrases will be reinforced when I see them the next day.
And if I don't do that repetition, I'll probably forget almost all of the new words that I saw.
So this is one of the reasons why I always talk about using repetition even with this podcast.
The...
listen to.
There are surely some words that I use that you don't use or maybe you don't even know, and it's great to listen to the episode more than once so that you can hear those new words again and have them reinforced in your mind.
So I think repetition is great, but of course we don't want to spend all of our time with repetition.
because it can get a little bit boring if you spend too much time with repetition.
So that's why it'll probably be 15 to 20 minutes a day for me just repeating what I listen to during my hard listening session and reading what I read the day before.
So it'll be faster the second day because I won't need to.
look up as many words hopefully I hope that I'll remember them or remember a lot of them the next day and then I can just spend maybe 15 or 20 minutes repeating what I read and listen to the day before.
So I'm probably not going to do this with the pleasure listening content just the hard listening and the reading content because those are the two
parts of this that are going to have a lot of new rooms that I'm not comfortable with.
So I think it's good to do repetition with that content.
So I'll do that and I want to also speak twice a week.
So my goal is to have two conversation classes every week in which I speak only French and just have conversations about...
different topics.
I don't want to discuss grammar, I don't want to lesson, I just want to have a conversation with a native speaker who can help me when I don't know word or when I'm making a big mistake and can offer me some feedback and just someone who's a nice person is interesting to talk to.
So I think that's what you should...
should also look for when you schedule classes with teachers.
Really focus on conversation.
I mean, you're spending money and you don't want to spend money on something that you can just do on your own.
Right?
You can learn grammar on your own.
You can learn grammar with great online YouTube teachers.
And yes, you can also do some grammar classes.
classes with your teacher.
I'm not saying to never do them, but just know that you can also do those things in other contexts.
However, one thing that you can't do alone is have a conversation with a real person who's a native speaker, right?
You either have to find someone who wants to talk to you or pay someone to do that.
So for me, I wanted...
this plan or not do it exactly like me but maybe do something similar for the rest of this year and then at the end of the year we'll see how much progress we made.
But before we start remember that if you want my advanced podcast episodes in which I speak at normal speed then make sure to sign up to become a listening time family member and you'll get two new advanced episodes every month.
The link
do the things on my own that are easy to do on my own, like listening and reading, and even grammar if I want to.
And then I want to use a teacher to do what I can't do by myself, which is my speaking practice.
So I plan on doing that twice a week and just talking about different topics each time.
And on the days when I have a conversation class, I'll do less.
listening on those days so that I can use that extra time to do some speaking.
And that speaking practice gives me listening practice as well because the teacher will be talking to me.
So speaking is really, really important.
I know that I always talk about listening.
I'm the listening guy, of course.
My podcast is called Listening Time and that should be the...
base of your learning.
However, speaking is essential at a certain point.
And that point is different for different people.
But I feel like I'm ready to start speaking regularly.
I think I probably should have started months ago.
But now I'm ready.
And so I want to do it.
I want to do it consistently.
It's important to speak consistently.
not twice a month.
It's better to do it at least once a week and my opinion twice a week is even better and so I want to try that.
So that's pretty much my plan and I'll do passive listening when I can.
I'll put my headphone in with a podcast when I'm walking or doing some household chore or whatever and so
Everything I mentioned so far is just my active two hours a day that I want to spend But if I can I'll also do passive listening and This is the time when I never use subtitles So whenever I'm listening passively I'm only listening I'm not reading any subtitles so I hope to be able to do 30 minutes at least a passive listening
If I can find time to do that while running or exercising or something, I can do even more than 30 minutes on some days Maybe an hour or whatever and that's a lot of listening practice without some titles So it's also important to listen without using subtitles or transcript and just practice listening without the aid of anything And aid just means some type of help
So that's my plan and maybe you want to follow it.
You don't have to, obviously.
I haven't even tried it out yet.
This is new, but I think I'll see good results from this and maybe it will give you some good ideas about what you want to do with your language learning for the rest of this year.
And remember that you can use my advanced podcast episodes and my US Conversations Podcast to give you some challenging content.
is down below in the description.
And remember that you can sign up from a US conversations podcast to help you reach the next level in your listening because in that podcast there are two people talking and not just one.
So that's the next step to help you understand well, understand when there are multiple people speaking.
That's an essential skill.
So if you're interested in that, the link is also down.
down below and you have the transcript for this podcast episode down below as well.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Alright, let's talk about my language learning plan for French for the rest of this year.
So I don't know what my current level is in French because I don't.
do any speaking.
That's something that I'm going to change this year.
I'm going to start speaking every week, but I haven't done much speaking practice.
So I can't really say how well I can speak.
No.
However, I have a pretty decent level of listening comprehension.
So I can understand a lot.
I listen to French podcasts.
all the time and I understand the majority of what's being said.
So I can't really say what level I have.
However, I know that at the end of this year, I want to reach a B2 level.
I want to have a pretty good level of French because up until now, I haven't been serious about my language learning for probably the last seven years or so.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to Episode 157 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great.
I just got back from another trip in the last episode.
You've heard about my trip to desert and today you'll hear about my trip that I took to Hawaii.
So I'm sure a lot of you are familiar with this chain of islands in the Pacific Ocean.
Hawaii is one of our states.
It's a state here in the U.S.
So it's part of our country, but it's far off from the mainland.
So it's in the middle of the ocean, but it's a fantastic place.
is because my dad wanted us to take one last family vacation with my mom.
So my mom has very serious condition that affects her in a very serious way and this was kind of the last time that she would be able to travel and it wasn't easy.
to travel with her and with my kids and my sister's kids because my sister's family went to so it was a challenge but we wanted to do this last family vacation and so my dad paid for pretty much everything except for the food and he popped this trip for all of us to go on
specifically to Hawaii because this is the special spot that my parents have traveled to many times throughout their marriage and when I was a kid I went with them many times probably five, six times something like that.
So my parents have always loved this place.
always loved Hawaii and it was kind of the perfect last vacation that we all wanted to take with my mom together.
So it was definitely a little bit emotional and it wasn't just a normal trip so to say.
But we of course tried to have a lot of fun and just really enjoy our family and so it was great.
that we were able to do this one last time with my mom and to be perfectly honest I'm not a beach person so even though I've pretty much always lived close to the beach throughout my whole life I'm not a beach person so I don't really like the saying and getting all sandy and I don't usually go in the water unless it's really warm
So, I'm not a beach person.
However, Hawaii is special.
It's a place that even I enjoy me being someone who doesn't really like the beach.
I still enjoy Hawaii because of how gorgeous it is.
The word gorgeous means really beautiful.
So, Hawaii is gorgeous and it
It's a place that has a different vibe.
We use the word vibe to talk about the feeling of some environment.
So it has a different vibe.
It is just really nice to be there.
It feels good when you're in Hawaii.
And I recommend it to all of you, even if you're not beach people.
So, specifically, we went to Oahu and that's the island where the capital is on Lulu.
There are four major islands and a few minor islands, but people usually go to one of the four major islands and the one we went to is Oahu.
And we spent the first half of our trip.
on the north side of the island and we stayed in this villa I think you could call it.
It wasn't really big but it was really nice because it had access to a pool and jacuzzi right behind the villa and it had access to the beach.
You just needed to...
walk about, I don't know, 50 meters or so and you were on the beach.
So it was a perfect location for a family vacation.
So we had a lot of fun there.
Our kids played together and it was a great place to stay and on that side of the island there are some...
to visit many people love traveling to Hawaii.
So it's a very popular destination for tourists.
And so I went there for six nights and I just got back two nights ago and I'm still a little jet land.
When someone is jet lagged that means that they still haven't adjusted to
pretty interesting surf spots.
And one of the surf spots that you can go to there is actually one of the most famous surf spots in the world called Banzai Pipeline.
Some of you might have heard about this before if you know anything about surfing.
And so we went to watch the surfers in a couple of minutes.
different areas and it was fun to watch them ride the waves and it was just a good environment to see the ocean go in the ocean a little bit watch the surfers relax it was a really relaxing environment and our kids were able to go water a little bit and
a season fish and one really cool thing was that when we went to the beach on our first full day.
So our second day there, but the first full day, we went to the beach and we had a nice afternoon there and right when we were about to leave, we saw whales in the water.
awesome.
We actually saw a whale breach when a whale breaches.
This means that it jumps out of the water.
So I've never seen this before.
This was the first time I've ever seen a whale breach and it was right there pretty close to the beach.
It was amazing to see that.
I'll always remember that you.
of the ocean and seeing that whale jump up out of the water.
It was awesome.
So, Hawaii has some magnificent marine life, the different animals that live in the ocean.
And apparently you can see whales there.
I didn't know that there were many whales in that part of the ocean, but we saw a couple whales.
so that was really cool and a perfect way to end that beach day that we had.
And one other thing we did on this side of the island was we took my son and my nephew to ride a pony right by the beach.
A pony is like a miniature horse, a really small horse.
So the kids were super excited.
to ride this pony and it was a really cool experience for them.
My son has always wanted to ride a horse, so this was a cool experience to give him riding that pony there by the beach.
So that was really cool for the boys.
And then for the second part of our trip, we drove down to a different part of the island, the island.
isn't that big.
So you can drive to the different parts of the island pretty quickly.
We went to Kanayouhei, which is where my parents' friends live.
So my parents have stayed with those friends.
I think probably like six different times maybe.
So they have stayed there.
Many times and these friends are extremely nice and they're extremely good hosts.
They really know how to make guests feel comfortable.
So it was a fantastic experience staying with them because they have this really cool house with this really nice backyard and...
It was a dream house really for us to stay in with our kids.
And it was just an overall amazing experience to stay there.
And we spent a lot of time just there hanging out with those friends.
But we also went to the beach a couple times.
They lived about...
the new time zone and the new sleeping schedule of where they currently are.
So there's a three-hour time difference between Hawaii and California where I live.
So it's not that much, however it's still enough to kind of throw you off for a few days.
When something throws you off it kind of confused.
minutes or maybe less from the beach so it was easy to drive there from where they live and we went to two different beaches pretty close to each other actually they were kind of right by each other and the first day that we went to one of those beaches it was pretty windy and cloudy and the sand kept getting in
my son's eyes and so it was a little bit frustrating.
It wasn't the best beach day.
However, the next day when we went to that other beach, it was perfect.
The weather was nice and sunny.
It wasn't as windy and we spent a long time there and my sister and I and brother and mom.
We also went
on a hike up this kind of really big hill, I guess you could say.
It was really hot.
So we had to climb up some parts using our hands even and we reached the part pretty close to the top of that hill and we had amazing views from there.
We could see...
the really beautiful blue color of the ocean because it wasn't just a typical blue, it was lighter than the blue of the ocean here in San Diego.
So it was a really nice view of the ocean and we love hiking.
So that was fun to be able to do that.
And one not so good thing.
that happened on this part of the trip was that my mom had an emergency situation.
She started kind of choking on food and she's not able to chew and swallow very well.
So she choked unfortunately and had to go to the emergency room and they had to get the food out of the road and she stayed.
overnight at hospital.
So that was a scary experience and thankfully they were able to get the food out and so I'm thankful for that but that was something that wasn't expected of course and it was one of the negatives probably the only big negative thing that happened during this trip.
You never want to.
one of your family members to go to the emergency room when you're traveling.
Of course, that's not good.
But thankfully, we got the food out and it wasn't too serious.
So thank God for that.
And that's pretty much it in terms of what we did.
Like I said, we hung out a lot with my parents' friends there.
And I just...
enjoyed that house and our kids really enjoyed it.
And in terms of the food that we ate in Hawaii, we ate a lot better than how I thought we would eat.
I didn't think we were going to eat a lot of really great food.
I wasn't planning on making this like a food trip where we try all these amazing food spots.
However,
it ended up being a really good food trip.
Actually Hawaii has some fantastic food.
My wife in particular really enjoyed all the different food that we tried because Hawaii has a lot of things, fruits, flavors that are perfect for my wife.
So I hope she enjoyed the food a lot and so did I.
So some...
of the things that we ate while we were there were garlic shrimp.
This is something that why is famous for.
That was the first thing we ate when we were there and it was a perfect introduction to the food in Hawaii because it was delicious.
I've never had garlic shrimp before so I can't really compare it this.
is you in a way.
So, three hours is enough time to get thrown off for a few days.
But, I'm sure I'll be back to normal soon.
And I hope you're excited to hear about another trip.
That's two episodes in a row.
And before we continue, I want to mention that if you can understand me in this podcast, but you can't understand native speakers.
dish to similar dishes here, but it was really good.
And one of the things that we were most excited about trying was the poke in Hawaii.
We love poke, which is, if you don't know, kind of like it's raw fish usually, typically it's raw tuna or salmon.
or sometimes a different fish, but this place that we went to served raw tuna and it also had like a crab salad with it and rice and depending on which one you choose there might be seaweed, there were cucumbers in it, it's almost like a sushi salad.
You good?
think of it like that or a sushi bowl with rice and different things.
We love Poke.
That's actually my wife's favorite food in the world and Hawaii is the Poke Capital of the world.
So we were really excited to try this and we went to the spot that is the most famous Poke Spot because it...
was featured on Netflix, I think.
Some Netflix show, but it was fantastic.
It was really, really good.
So it definitely pulled it up to its reputation.
We can use that expression, something, it will live up to something else.
This means that it was as good as its reputation,
Just it that it would be right so that was amazing.
I also had barbecue chicken and pork which Hawaii is Pretty famous for and that was great as well.
We had Asai If you're Brazilian you know what I'm talking about Asai is really Big in Hawaii also here in California people love this So we tried
that and that was also really good.
We had these special doughnuts that you can get in Hawaii, which are actually Portuguese originally, which are called malasadas.
If you're Portuguese, you probably know what I'm talking about.
And those were also really, really good.
And Hawaii is also famous for...
or shaved ice, which is kind of like, I guess you could say a snow cone, like it's ice with sweet flavor to it.
So it's kind of like ice cream, but it doesn't have the cream base.
And then we had a lot of good fruit, good tropical fruit, like mango, pineapple, and
different types of bananas like apple bananas and ice cream bananas.
I know for some of you those names sound really strange but these are different types of bananas and why has a lot of guava fruit and a lot of things have guava flavor.
So I really like that because guava is one of my favorite flavors.
desserts, drinks and things like that.
And we had other good food as well, but those are some of the things that really stand out.
And so, as you can see, we really enjoyed eating in Hawaii.
We tried some great flavors, great new dishes.
So, that was great.
I really liked that.
And overall, it was...
a really good trip for my family and more importantly, anything else, I'm really happy for my dad that he was able to take my mom there one last time.
Even if it wasn't a really active trip for him because my mom isn't mobile, she's in wheelchair.
So even though it wasn't like their trips in...
frustrated about that, I would highly recommend you to join my membership because it's dedicated to helping you practice your listening skills and your pronunciation skills.
It's about the sounds of English and of course depending on which tier, which level you join, you can also get things like my advanced podcast episodes and...
past it's still great that we were all able to go one last time and that was my biggest wish with this trip I just really wanted my dad to enjoy it have this last experience with my mom there so overall I'm really thankful that we went on this trip and I'm thankful to my dad that he basically bought this whole trip.
for us.
So that would be really generous of him.
And yeah, that's pretty much it.
I hope you liked hearing about Hawaii and I hope that some of you decide to go there at some point in your life because it's definitely a special place.
I highly recommend it as a travel destination to anyone.
It doesn't matter who you are.
So I hope this episode was good practice for your listening and remember.
that you can join my membership if you want my help understanding native speakers.
If you want my training seminars where I help you understand the different sounds in the village, then make sure to sign up for my membership.
The link is down below.
That's patreon.com slash listen time.
And if you want to practice with my conversations with other native speakers, if you want to practice with two people, talk.
different training videos, but even if you just sign up for the lowest level, just $2 a month, you get my listening practice seminars in which I help you train with the different sound patterns that are hard to understand in English.
So these seminars are really helpful.
People usually love them.
First discover them.
So you get those and you also...
get a bonus episode every month and that's just at the lowest tier, the lowest level for $2 a month.
If you sign up to become a listening time family member, which is $4 a month, then you also get two advanced podcast episodes every month and a sound training video.
So there's a lot of stuff there, a lot of useful material for you to use if you...
have trouble understanding native speakers when they speak fast and you want to practice with that.
So the link to sign up is down below in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And of course you also have the link down there to the US Conversations podcast.
If you want to practice with my conversations with other native speakers.
So that's down below as well.
and of course the train.
for this episode is down there as well.
So if you need that go down and click on that.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about my trip to Hawaii.
So let me give you some background information.
So the reason why we went to Hawaii.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 156 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great.
I'm going to talk in today's episode about a trip that I just took last week.
During this period, I'm actually traveling quite a bit.
I'm traveling to two different places in two weeks.
So I'm gonna take another trip two days from now and then I'll probably record an episode about that trip as well.
But first, I wanna talk about the trip that I took last week to Palm Desert in California.
So this trip...
hours in England to a part of California that is very dry and desert-y.
It's a desert.
That's why it's called Palm Desert.
But let me describe this area for you because it's not a typical desert in my opinion.
Of course it's hot and dry.
dry like any desert.
I think in the summer it's pretty typical to see temperatures in the low 40s Celsius.
I'm using Celsius here because that's what all of you are familiar with.
So in the summer it's typical to have afternoons where it's 41, 42, 44.
maybe even higher than that.
And of course, this is Celsius again.
So summers are definitely hot here.
And at the time of recording this, it's April.
So it's not summer and we went last week.
So in the first half of April, it was already pretty hot.
However, it wasn't that hot.
it wasn't in the 40s.
The temperature was lower than that, but it still felt hot, which I love, because I love the sun and the warm weather, and lately it's been a little bit cold, and it's rained a lot here in San Diego, and I don't like that.
So it was nice to escape from this, and go to a nice...
warm desert environment.
However, as I mentioned, this is not your typical desert that you imagine think of the desert.
Why?
Well, because this desert is surrounded by mountains and a lot of these mountains had snow on them.
It was a little bit surreal.
Something that's...
surreal is something that doesn't really seem real.
It doesn't seem like reality.
I say that it was a little surreal because I had never had that experience before being in a really hot dry desert and then seeing snowy mountains next to me.
It was really strange but I love this.
It was such a cool contrast.
The sun was out.
There were no clouds in the sky.
It was blue skies, perfect weather, hot, dry.
You could feel that dryness in the air.
And yet you look out the window or you just look around you if you're outside and you see these beautiful mountains in the distance.
snowy peaks.
By the way the word peak refers to the top of the mountain, the pointy part like the corner of a triangle.
Right?
These are peaks.
So these mountains had snowy peaks in the middle of April and it was right next to this hot desert and like I said that was a really cool contract.
And not only that, but this area is very famous for its palm trees.
That's why these cities are called Palm Desert and Palm Springs.
So there are palm trees everywhere, all throughout this area.
So it's a really cool environment.
You have a desert, but with palm trees and snowy mountains.
So, I really like that.
I really enjoyed just being there and taking in the scenery.
We use the phrasal verb take in to talk about views or sceneries, things like that.
What we're saying is that you're kind of consuming it.
You're observing it and just enjoying it.
And you're seeing what you're seeing.
was a gift from my aunt.
My aunt is very generous and she often gives me these little vacations different areas.
Sometimes I get to choose and usually stay in a resort or a few nights.
So that's what happened this month.
My aunt gave me a gift.
So I really liked taking in the views, the scenery around me, that alone made this trip worth it.
So I really liked that.
And we stayed at a resort, thanks to my aunt, and this resort was very peaceful.
There were a lot of married couples on vacation there to be honest, there weren't many kids.
kids and it was very quiet.
So we felt a little bit out of place because we have kids and they're noisy.
So that was a little bit uncomfortable just because I always feel uncomfortable when my kids are making noise and we're in a quiet place and they're kind of disturbing.
the peace around them.
So that wasn't my favorite aspect of staying there because it's a little bit uncomfortable and we didn't end up going in the pools there because I knew that we were gonna make a ton of noise and I didn't want to disturb the people on vacation there who were just relaxing by the pool.
And so we didn't do that.
But we still enjoyed the resort.
We were on a golf course.
That's pretty typical for resorts in the US.
And in Palm Desert and Palm Springs, there are golf courses everywhere.
So you see these golf courses all over the place.
And so we were on this beautiful golf course with the view of the mountains and background.
So it was nice.
We definitely enjoyed this resort and we just did a couple of activities while we were there.
We didn't do too much.
One of the things that we did was we went to the living desert zoo in gardens.
This zoo is a zoo that has a lot of animals and plants that
that are kind of like desert wildlife.
So this isn't a zoo with monkeys and polar bears and things like that.
It's a zoo dedicated to the deserts of the world.
So a lot of the dry places around the world.
So some of the animals that they have there are cheetahs and...
line-os and warthogs.
If you don't know what a warthog is, this is that animal that you have probably seen in the movie The Lion King, the one named Humba.
He's a warthog, if I'm not mistaken.
So we saw warthogs, the coolest thing that we saw there were the giraffes, the giraffes.
come really close to the fence like where you are and you can pay to feed them.
So some people paid money and then they fed the giraffes.
I think it was lettuce if I remember correctly.
The giraff eats it out of your hand and it's really cool that you can get that close to the fence.
huge animals.
So that was awesome.
My son loved watching those giraffes eat lettuce out of other people's hands.
I highly doubt that my son would have done that.
If we had asked him because I think he would have been a little bit afraid because these are huge animals and it probably would have been a little scary for him.
So he didn't...
feed them.
But one thing that he did do was he went into the petting zoo.
This is a little area where there are usually goats and sometimes sheep and kids can go in and pet these animals, sometimes feed them and my son loves this.
So he got to pet.
this trip for me and for my family of course and so we decided to go to Palm Desert and so we're gonna talk about that today.
I'll describe this place and I'll talk about a couple things that we did when we were there and I'm excited for this episode and I'm sure you'll like it.
It's been a while since I've recorded an episode.
lot of different goats and that was a fun thing for him.
And another thing that's really cool about this zoo is they have this big like train set.
It's not a real train.
It's a small model train but it goes around these tracks through this little model town that
is like an old style town from 150 years ago or a hundred years ago maybe.
They built this little mini town with these old buildings that you would typically see in the US maybe around the year 1900 or so.
I don't know about the exact year but it seemed like that.
So this
was really cool for kids because kids loved trains and it was also cool for us to see these little model buildings that were like old buildings from the past.
So that was really cool.
And one other unexpected thing that we saw at the zoo was we saw two snakes but they weren't animals that the zoo had.
had in exhibits.
These were just wild snakes slithering on the ground.
The word slither refers to that movement, that snake's make to move.
So we got a little bit scared because we were walking and suddenly this long snake slithered out from the plants and crossed in front of us and then we saw another
small snake moving really fast across another part of the sidewalk and it was just a reminder that we were in the desert because when you're in the desert here in the US you have to know that there are snakes especially when it's hot outside so that was a little bit scary for my wife but I knew that this wasn't.
a rattlesnake, so it startled me just a little bit, but when I saw that it wasn't a rattlesnake, I knew that it wasn't a problem.
So that was an unexpected thing that we saw.
And one other thing that we did when we were there was we went outside the city, so this is not in the city itself, but we went outside the city.
to the cabazon dinosaurs.
So this is a big roadside attraction in that area.
A roadside attraction refers to some place that is right off the highway in the US that you can stop at when you're driving between different cities.
So this
was a really cool roadside attraction.
It has a lot of different dinosaur figures.
And some of them are pretty big.
Others are smaller, but they have a couple huge ones, really big ones.
And one of them you can actually go up the dinosaur because inside.
there are stairs that you can climb up and then you can go all the way up to its mouth.
So I took my son up there and it was very high above the ground but it was really cool to see his face knowing that he was inside this big fake dinosaur and all
throughout this park there are different types of dinosaurs.
A lot of the really famous ones that people know about like triceratops and stegosaurus and those types of dinosaurs and I thought this was a really interesting roadside attraction that is really cool for families with kids who are...
about the trip that I've taken because I haven't traveled in a while.
So I'm sure you'll like hearing about vacations and travels again.
So I'm sure you'll like it and before we start remember that if you want my advanced podcast episodes in which I speak at normal speed then make sure to sign up to become a listening time family member.
taking a road trip through California.
This is a cool place to stop.
Even me as an adult, I enjoyed this.
It was cool to be among all these dinosaurs there.
So that's something that we wanted to do with my son because like most young boys, he loves dinosaurs.
So that was great.
And then besides that, we just went to...
a big park for my son to play at and we also took him to the playground at the resort where we were staying and besides that we kind of just relaxed at this resort and This is something that's hard for me to be honest.
I know that sounds crazy to some of you, but I'm the type of person that is very
manic, anxious, neurotic, you might say.
And sometimes my brain just doesn't cooperate with wanting to relax, just do nothing.
So I don't like when I feel pressured to relax.
Like, okay, we have this relaxing vacation.
And now I need to try to relax.
especially now that I have kids.
I don't like that pressure because I feel like I end up not relaxing as much as I should.
It's kind of strange but that's what happens when I feel pressured to relax.
So I'm trying to get better at this so that I can enjoy these types of mini vacations where we just...
Go somewhere for a few days, stay there, and don't do much.
I'm trying to learn to enjoy those types of trips because it's not natural for me to do that.
I don't usually choose to go on vacation specifically to relax.
I usually...
travel to explore and experience things that are interesting for me and of course to eat good food.
That's usually why I travel.
However, I think it's also good to just take these short trips during which you can just do nothing and enjoy the view around you.
And I did this a little bit, but of course I had a little bit of trouble relaxing because that usually happens with me when I feel pressured to relax.
But I was able to do this a little bit and it helped to have that amazing view of the mountains with the snow on them and palm trees.
the beautiful golf course as well.
So that was definitely nice.
And one other thing that I really liked about taking this trip was that it made me remember how big my country is, how big my state is, and how many beautiful places there are to explore and how many beautiful drives there are.
beautiful landscapes.
I only went three hours or less from where I live and I got to see a lot of beautiful places along the way as I was driving when I was there of course and it's great to remember from time to time just how beautiful this country is and how many great
places there are to visit here and it makes me want to explore more and see a lot of other beautiful places here as well.
So that was really cool just to take that trip and remember that there are a lot of cool places that I want to travel to.
And this was a good experience going there and
and you'll get two new advanced episodes every month.
So that link is down below in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you feel ready to start practicing with my conversations that I have with other native speakers from around the United States, then make sure to sign up for my US Conversations podcast.
The link is also down below.
enjoying that beauty there in Palm Desert and on the way to Palm Desert as well.
So that was great.
And that's pretty much it for this episode.
We didn't do too much, like I mentioned, we just did a couple things.
But I'm gonna take another trip this week and hope probably record an episode about that trip.
I won't tell you.
where I'm going yet.
You'll find out in that episode.
But hopefully that's a good trip for me and my family as well.
And I hope this episode was good practice for your listening.
And remember that you can join my membership and become a listening time family member if you want my advanced podcast episodes.
And you can also sign up for my US Conversations podcast.
Patreon.com slash US conversations.
All right, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about my trip to Palm Desert.
I'm sure that most of you have never heard of Palm Desert.
Maybe some of you have and maybe a couple of you.
have been there before.
I don't know.
If you've ever been to California before and you've taken a road trip through this part of the country, maybe you stopped by this area.
Who knows?
But the more famous city I think is Palm Springs, which is right next to Palm Desert.
It's almost the same city.
If you look at it on the map, it's kind of...
like one big city, one of the cities is Palm Springs, and the other one is Palm Desert.
So we stayed in Palm Desert, which is about two and a half hours to three hours driving from where I live in San Diego.
And I think it's probably a similar distance from Los Angeles.
So to get there.
You've got to go east.
So more inland.
Inland is a word that refers to a direction of place that is not in the direction of the coast.
Right?
So if I go to the coast that's the opposite of going inland.
Right?
So to get there we had to drive a little less than three...
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 135 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you all had a good end of the year and I hope that you're ready for 2024 and that you're motivated to make this a good year for you and at the time of recording this
still November.
I'm recording this very early.
However, when this is released, it will be 2024.
So I want to make sure to wish you all a happy new year.
And in today's episode, I want to talk about the fact that it's going to be a new year.
When this episode is released, like I said, it...
So when I say that every day is a gift, what I'm saying is that I need to understand that I don't necessarily deserve good things.
Sometimes we can feel like that.
That we deserve to have good things.
If we have good things, it's because that's how it's supposed to be.
We deserve that.
I think that if we have that type of thinking all the time, then we don't actually appreciate the things that we have.
We don't appreciate the good things in our life because we view it as something that we already deserve.
So why do we need to appreciate it?
However, I don't want to have that mindset.
I want to have a mindset where I consider every day to be a gift that I don't deserve, but God gave it to me.
So I'm thankful, I'm happy, and I'm going to appreciate this day.
I'm not only talking about the day, but all the things inside my day.
all the things that happen and that I have and the experiences that I have, I need to view them as not things that I just deserve, but gifts that have been given to me.
I think that's a good attitude to have.
In general, with this mindset, I want to have more gratitude.
gratitude refers to being thankful for what you have.
So if I view every day as gift and I don't think that I just deserve all of these good things, then I can be more grateful, I can be more thankful for the good things in my life.
Because for example when you receive a
gift from someone else, you're thankful, right?
You didn't have that gift before.
No one made that person give you that gift because you deserve it.
No, the person just gave it to you and you can appreciate it and be grateful.
And so that's how I want to view things that every good thing that
happens to me, every good thing that I have is not something that I deserve.
It's a gift given to me, and I can appreciate it much more and just be thankful, not my day.
I think I've talked about that in several episodes, but I think it's really important.
If you're grateful, your life is going to be a lot better because you actually...
appreciate things.
So that's a big thing.
And if I'm grateful for every day, I think that I'll enjoy my day more.
I'll enjoy a little things, the details that might seem insignificant.
I can actually appreciate these details more, because I view them as a gift.
And I don't.
just take them for granted.
So that's an effect of viewing each day as gift.
I think that I'll be able to enjoy the little things more and I want to do this because time flies.
When I say that time flies, I'm saying that time goes by very fast.
I want to stop and appreciate the good things that I have.
because time goes by fast and before you know it, you're a lot older and you haven't even appreciated all of the cool amazing things that you've had up until that point.
So that's the first thing that I want to improve about my mindset this year.
I want to get better at viewing things as gifts.
not a new year for me yet, it's still November, but when this is released it will be a new year and I want to have a new mindset.
So this episode will be mostly for myself.
I want to talk about some of the things that I want to change about my mindset, but I think that you might also benefit from it because...
that I receive and not thinking that I just deserve those things, right?
So the next thing I want to improve about my mindset is I want to have my thoughts more balanced when it comes to thinking about the past present and future.
I think this is one that a lot of people can benefit.
from.
I'm sure that a lot of you spend more time than you like thinking about the past or thinking about the future or living too much in the present and not thinking about the future.
For example, so I think that most of us can improve in this regard and specifically this even wouldn't have happened.
to improve by not thinking too much about the future.
I'm the type of person that thinks about the future all the time.
I think about the future constantly.
And I think that it's good to think about the future.
There are some great benefits to thinking about the future, of course.
However,
when you think about the future too much, then you run into some problems.
In English, when we say that you run into something, in this context, we mean that you encounter that thing, you encounter those problems.
So more specifically, because I think so much about the future, the future is always...
on my mind because of this I deal with anxiety and I can't always enjoy the present and this is something that I really want to change just like I mentioned when talking about enjoying the little things.
I want to be able to enjoy the moment and not be thinking about the future
something really great or precious is happening right now.
So I want to balance that.
I'm not saying that I don't want to think about the future.
Obviously not.
However, I want to have more time thinking about the present, let's say.
And if you're someone who thinks about the past a lot, for example.
and I sometimes do this.
You might also have another issue of maybe feeling like you're always regretting things in the past and you can't enjoy the present because of your past mistakes or things like that and I think it's good to recognize your mistakes from the past for sure.
However,
If you're constantly replaying those in your mind and you're always thinking about the past, things that happened, that can be another issue, right?
Or maybe you don't just think about your regrets from the past, but maybe you think a lot about how great the past was and how things aren't good now, but they were.
were great in the past.
That can be a depressing thought, right?
To think that everything was better before and now things aren't as good.
That's another issue, right?
And I think that's a common tendency that a lot of people have.
We tend to view the past and maybe exaggerate that..
it was, but really it wasn't that great and we're just looking at it from a future perspective and so the same thing will probably happen ten years from now.
You'll look back to things that are current now and you might think that the things now are much better than the things that...
maybe these are also changes that you can make to benefit your mindset this year.
So I think that this will be a good topic even though I'm talking to myself here, I am also going to relate it to people in general.
So hopefully you'll benefit from this.
And before we continue, remember that if
will be happening in the future, for example.
So it's easy to fall into that trap.
So I think it's important not to spend too much time thinking about the future or the past and it's also not good to just always think about the present and not think about the past or the future because
If you never think about the past, then you're never going to learn from your mistakes.
You're never going to learn lessons from experiences that you had.
You might not appreciate your memories from the past.
So that's not good.
And if you don't think about the future ever, then you're not going to have goals for yourself.
You're not going to...
to actually plan to achieve certain things and you might fall into the trap of just wanting pleasure now.
And that's not a good thing either.
Right.
We need to learn to also delay our gratification sometimes.
When you delay your gratification, we're saying that...
You do the hard thing now or you don't get the pleasure that you want now so that you can have it in the future and in a better form, usually.
And that's an important skill to have.
So that's why it's also important to not just focus on this moment and having fun.
right now and that's it.
We also want to be able to consider the future and the consequences of our actions and have goals for ourselves and be able to envision ourselves in the future.
So I think that's really important as well.
For me in particular, my problem is that I need to.
not think too much about the future and instead enjoy the moment more and be present in the moment and enjoy the little things that are happening right now and appreciate what's happening now.
So that's another thing that I want to change.
Another improvement that I need to make is that
I need to view things that happen to me as not just happening to me, but happening for me.
So I heard someone say this recently and at first I thought it sounded kind of cheesy.
When we say that something is cheesy, that means that it sounds kind of cheap or unoriginal or inoffent.
It doesn't sound very good.
I thought it sounded kind of cheesy, but the more I think about it, the more true it is.
It seems pretty true to me now that I consider this sentence.
So things happen for me and not to me.
What I'm saying is that we often feel like we're just the victims of everything that...
happens.
Oh man, this happened to me.
He said that to me.
That occurred and I just suffered the consequences of all of this.
Of course, that's the tendency of how we think about bad things or inconvenient things or challenging things.
That's kind of a normal tendency for people.
However, if we start to...
think about these things as happening for us, meaning they happen for our benefit, then we can actually get something good out of these situations.
So if we view things as happening to us, that means that we complain and get mad and are really negative about things.
you want to really improve your listening this year and you want to start to understand native speakers when they speak fast, then make sure to join my membership so you can get my specialized listening training.
So make sure to go down below and click on the link in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listen time.
And if you feel ready to practice your listening with real coverage...
that we don't like that happened.
However, if we can view every challenge or inconvenience or problem as an opportunity to learn or grow or gain experience from then things aren't so negative, we can try to take the positive from every situation.
This is something that I definitely need to work on.
I want to start to view things as learning experiences rather than just problems that happen to me.
I really want to improve in that regard and I want to become stronger from the things that happen to me that aren't so great.
I want to use those things.
to become stronger, to become a better person, to become wiser.
By the way, the word wiser means that you have a lot of intelligence because of experience, your wiser.
So I want to become wiser and just learn from these things instead of complaining about them and feeling sorry for myself.
I want to get better at seeing these things from a different angle, a more positive angle.
So always asking myself, how can I learn from this situation?
What can I gain from this experience?
How can I become a better person from this?
Or what trait do I need to develop or what skill?
Do I need to develop to better handle this challenge?
Right?
Always trying to look for how I can include from the situation.
So that's something I want to get better at.
And I'm sure some of you might also agree with me there.
That that would be a better mindset to have.
And lastly, I want to give one bonus.
mindset change here, related to language learning.
This is a general one, not just for me, but I wanted to give you this extra little encouragement here.
So with language learning, we can sometimes have a mindset where we want to rush things.
We want it to go fast.
where annoyed, you feel that we're not making progress, and we get discouraged because it doesn't seem like we're improving fast enough.
So I think that it's better to have the mindset where you are not rushing.
Don't rush.
There's no hurry here.
You're always going to feel like you're failing if you have a mentality.
where you want things done really fast, you want the improvement to happen really quickly.
That just simply doesn't happen very often with language learning.
So if you're listening to me right now, that means that you're practicing your English.
And if you're practicing your English, you're improving even if you don't feel like it.
And if you don't feel like the clock.
is happening if you're actually practicing your English, you're doing your listening, maybe you're speaking or whatever.
If you're doing this practice, you're improving.
It might be happening very slowly and you might not realize it, but if you're putting in the effort, you're improving because the words that you hear me say.
phrases you hear me use.
All of these things are going into your brain.
They might not stay there, but you're at least being exposed to them and you're getting more of this exposure to English.
Every time you do your listening practice and this is helping your brain.
It's helping the language learning process.
So this process might be released.
then make sure to join my US Conversations podcast so that you can practice with those real conversations that I have with other native speakers.
The link is also down below.
That's patreon.com slash US Conversations.
And if you like this podcast, please share it with anyone else you know who's learning English.
And please give it a five star rating.
but it's happening.
And I think that the mindset change that a lot of us need to have need to, I'm also guilty of this, is we need to not rush.
Don't feel like progress needs to be fast because it almost never feels like it's fast, especially once you reach an intermediate level.
the progress usually seems very slow after that.
But it's happening as long as you continue on with your practice.
Okay?
So once again, don't rush.
Just trust that you're improving.
You can maybe dedicate more time to your English learning.
That would be great.
And challenge yourself more.
Use content that's harder for you.
For sure.
Do those things.
things, but don't expect to see progress really, really fast.
Do those things, challenge yourself, dedicate more time if you have it, but just be patient with this process.
That's it for today.
I hope that you enjoyed this episode and I hope that you're ready for this new year.
Have a good mindset.
have to start this year and remember that if you want my help understanding native speakers when they speak fast, if you want my training then make sure to sign up for my membership so you can get my listening practice seminars and if you become a family member you'll also get my advanced podcast episodes where I speak fast and if you want to challenge yourself and start to listen to real conversations between native speakers.
in English, then join my US Conversations podcast and you'll also get the transcript for each conversation with the definitions of C words and phrases that we use.
So the link is down below.
That's patreon.com slash US Conversations.
And if you like this podcast, please share it with your friends and family members and give it a five-star rating and writer review.
Alright.
and write a review.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about the new mindset that I want to have this year and that maybe some of you want to have this year.
So the first thing that I want to improve regarding mindset is
here is that I want to view every day as a gift.
I already do this and I already understand this.
I get that this is true that every day is a gift for me.
However, I don't act like it all the time.
There are many times when I don't act as if
The fact that I'm alive today is a gift and I kind of take it for granted In English when we say that you take something for granted What we're saying is that you don't appreciate it.
You just you it as obvious that it's true and that you don't really Stop to consider that you just say oh, yeah of course
You just take it for granted.
You don't appreciate the significance of it.
So for me, I know that every day is a gift, but sometimes I take this for granted and I don't really act like this in my daily life.
I don't act the way I want to act according to this
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 168 of The Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great.
I hope that you had a good summer so far.
I think that at the time that this episode will be released, it will be August.
If I'm not mistaken, for me...
It's still the beginning of summer because I'm recording this at the end of June and I'm really enjoying the weather.
It's been nice and warm lately and I'm very thankful for that because beginning of this year Winter and spring The weather was not the way I like it.
It was much colder and
conversation.
And I think about everything that we said, talked about, and I think about how I spoke and the things that I said, the jokes that I told, and I analyze how I performed, so to say.
When we talk about someone performing well,
or performing badly.
We're talking about them doing an action.
You perform, you do an action, execute an action.
So I think about how I performed in that conversation, so to say.
And this is something that maybe some people that are more introverted and...
a little more self-conscious might do.
We might think too much about the conversations that we have.
And I don't think that's a very good thing because we tend to be too critical of ourselves.
And we think things like, I shouldn't have said that.
That was dumb.
Why did I save this?
Why did I tell that Joe?
We criticize ourselves.
And usually we are thinking about the little details that the other person has already forgotten.
Right?
Not everyone is analyzing every conversation that you had with them.
Of course not.
So chances are you are thinking way more.
about that conversation that you had, then the other person is.
By the way, we can use the phrase Chances are, that just means that it is likely that blah blah blah.
Chances are.
So, chances are, you're thinking way too much about the conversation and the other person isn't thinking about all those little details that you're.
stressing about.
And so this is something that I do sometimes and I want to stop this because it's not healthy.
It doesn't help me in any way.
I just think about all the things that I should have said differently.
And the things that I could have said, but I did.
And so it doesn't really serve...
me, it just makes me critical of my own self, my performance in that conversation.
So I think it's better to just focus on other more important things or just look back and think about the conversation generally without being so critical.
of yourself.
So that's one thing that I tend to overthink.
And another thing that I tend to overthink is how to respond to messages.
So this could be text messages or emails.
So this happens with both of those.
When I write a message to someone in...
response to something they said to me or if I'm just writing the first message like I'm reaching out to them first.
By the way when you reach out to someone this means that you initiate contact with that person, the message or phone call or whatever.
So if I reach out to them first.
or if I'm responding to their message, I tend to take a long time to write the message and analyze it, reread it, change things, and I do all of that to try to make it perfect before I send it.
And I should say that I think it's important.
I think it's very important.
out of your, then I prefer.
So I am enjoying the summer and I hope you are too.
And in today's episode, we're going to talk about overthinking.
overthinking refers to the act of thinking too much about a certain thing.
You're thinking more than you should.
You're overthinking.
So
important to proofread your messages before you send them.
Proofread means to read through something again to check for mistakes and to correct those mistakes or make in necessary changes.
So I do think that it's important to proofread your messages.
I don't think we should be careless.
about sending messages and just write it fast send it and that's it.
I get many messages from people that do that and it's not very pleasant when I have to try to figure out what they're saying because they wrote something wrong or they messed up somewhere in their sentence and they didn't bother to...
directed, I don't like to receive messages like that.
By the way, when we say that someone doesn't bother to do something, we're saying that they don't make the effort to do that small task or whatever.
So I don't like when I receive those messages and I don't want to send messages like that either.
I want to...
proofread my messages.
However, you can go too far with this sometimes.
And I tend to do this where I analyze every word, every punctuation mark.
I try to think about how the other person will perceive every single word that I write.
And that's a little excess.
Because in reality,
the other person probably won't analyze my message the way that I'm analyzing my message.
I'm overthinking it.
I'm overthinking all the words every single detail because in reality I'm paying much more attention to all the details than the other person will.
So, I'm probably wasting...
a lot of time when I do this and I reread my messages too many times.
I think I do too much proofreading in my opinion.
So that's something that I can definitely get better at and another part of this is then I also overthink the other person's message.
So I might spend...
So, too much time analyzing the other person's words sometimes.
Not always.
I don't have as big of a problem with this, but I can sometimes overthink the other person's words and say, well, why did he say this or why did he write that or why did he include that detail there?
It's too much sometimes, right?
Okay, the next thing that I wanted to mention that I sometimes overthink is what to do when I have free time.
This one is kind of silly because I should just enjoy my free time and this shouldn't be stressful.
However, I like planning things and I want my plans to be perfect and I really want to take it.
advantage of the free time that we have.
And I have a family, I have a wife and kids, so I wanna make sure that everyone is having fun.
I wanna make sure that everyone is comfortable.
And I also have to think about my kids' naps schedules at what time they're gonna take a nap.
So I also have to think of...
traffic, I don't want to drive home during rush hour.
So I think about all of these things when I'm planning what we're gonna do when we have a free day over a free afternoon and we want to go have fun somewhere.
And what happens is I sometimes end up wasting too much time thinking about all of them.
I'm gonna talk about some things that I have the tendency of overthinking.
And I'm the type of person that tends to overthink quite a bit.
And this is not a good thing.
So I'm recording this episode kind of for myself.
So that...
this and so I actually give us less time to actually go have fun because I take too much time to plan and think of all these things.
So that's kind of silly right.
We shouldn't stress so much about making plans for our free time for our Saturday.
or whatever we should actually spend more time enjoying that day, enjoying that free time.
So I don't have a huge problem with that, but it is something that I tend to overthink sometimes.
So I can improve in that area as well.
And one more thing that I tend to overthink a lot.
And this one is probably the worst for me.
This is the one that I struggle with the most and that is overthinking about the future.
So I can't even tell you how many plans I've made and how many backup plans I've made which is like the plan that you have in case your first plan fails.
That's led this.
Back.
plan.
So I can't even tell you how many plans backup plans I've made for the future that never actually happened.
And I over thought these plans I tried to think of all the things that I was going to do in the future and I tried to think of all the issues that I was going to have to deal with.
with solve and I was already thinking of problems and coming up with solutions and I'm that type of person that likes to plan ahead.
So because of that I have the tendency of planning too much and overthinking when it comes to the future.
And the reality is that we simply don't know
what the future holds.
So we can't prepare 100%.
We can't plan perfectly for the future.
We actually need to be more flexible.
So I think that it's a good thing to prepare and plan for the future, but with flexibility.
I think that that's a good balance.
I think...
We should think about the future and have goals and plans, but we shouldn't think too much about it so that we're planning all the details, thinking of all the problems and solutions, etc.
We need to be flexible, maybe be more general in our plans so that we don't spend too much time.
thinking about things that will never actually happen.
Like I said, I've made so many plans that didn't actually happen.
It's kind of embarrassing when I think back and think about all the plans that I've made for the future back in the past and none of those things have happened.
So this is the thing.
I overthink the most and I'm actively trying to get better at this so that I don't fall into this trap again and again of making all of these detailed plans and acting as if I can control the future and predict the future.
That's simply not the case, right?
So that's something that I need to get better at.
And I need to be more flexible and less analytical and anxious when it comes to thinking about the future.
Okay, lastly, let me talk about some things that I don't overthink.
So I talked about my weaknesses.
Now let me talk about my strengths.
I can remind myself not to do this because I want to get better at this.
So I'm gonna talk about some different things that I tend to overthink and then at the end I'll also mention some things that I don't overthink.
So I'll also give myself some credit for the things that I'm better at in terms of.
In other words, things that I don't have this issue with.
So the first thing that I definitely don't overthink is what to wear.
So I know some of you might struggle with this.
You might think for a long time about what clothes you want to wear the next day.
This is something you...
that I don't really care much about.
And recently, I tried to simplify this process for myself.
And so what I did recently was I went to the store and I bought some different black shirts and white shirts.
And now I just alternate.
between black shirts and white shirts.
Here just blank shirts, this means that there's nothing on them, no logo or writing design.
They're just blank black shirts and blank white shirts.
And I wear a black shirt one day and then I wear a white shirt the next day.
Pretty simple, right?
I love these colors.
I like the simplicity and I don't ever have to think about what I need to wear the next day because all I have to do is alternate.
I wore black yesterday so I'm gonna wear white today.
Simple huh?
So I've made that very easy for myself.
I don't need to overthink that at all.
The next thing that I don't overthink.
is what to eat for breakfast.
I know this is a strange one, but I say this because I know exactly what I want for breakfast when I eat here at my house and I eat the same thing basically every day.
I know that I want my eggs, jorizo, and sausage if
We have some and I like oatmeal and I like to eat my wife's homemade sourdough bread with butter.
So I love breakfast.
It's like my biggest meal of the day and I know exactly what I want and I never get tired of it.
If I have that every single day, I'm perfectly happy.
So
that takes a little bit of that stress out of my life.
I don't have to think about what I'm going to eat for breakfast every day.
So it's a simple one, but it's something that I wanted to mention because I definitely don't overthink it.
And one other thing that I don't overthink is the improvement that I'm making in
in my language learning process, if I'm practicing every day.
I mention this because many language learners, many of you probably overthink this, question yourself, am I really improving?
I don't feel like I'm improving.
I don't feel like I'm seeing any difference in my level, I don't know Latest academic degree I don't understand the grade, my first grade, my number one and my few graduated papers, I don't mean any class year eู้et, I just said something,
But you're doing your listening practice every day and maybe you're reading things in English and maybe you're even speaking from time to time.
And if you're doing those things, you're improving.
Maybe it's little by little, but you're improving if you have that consistent, regular practice.
So, I don't overthink this because I know that it takes many, many hours to learn a language and I know that when you reach a lower intermediate level, it seems like it takes a really long time to see improvement at that point.
I know how it works.
So because of that...
of not thinking too much about.
So I think that this topic will also be relevant for many of you because I think that most of us overthink some things in our lives.
And as always remember that you can sign up for my advanced podcast episodes so that you can start to practice with English spoken podcast.
But of course.
I don't overthink this.
I just trust that if I'm doing my practice every day, if I'm staying engaged and motivated in my language-learning process, I know that I'm improving.
There's nothing I need to worry about.
I can just enjoy the process.
So that's something that I want you to do as well.
Don't overthink your-
progress when it comes to language learning if you are practicing every day.
Of course, if you're not practicing, if you're not consistent, then yes, you need to get consistent.
But if you are consistent with your practice, don't overthink it.
Just relax, try to be engaged and motivated.
find content that's very interesting for you and trust the process.
Okay?
Alright, that's it for today.
I hope you enjoyed this episode and I want to encourage you to use my advanced podcast episodes if you feel ready to take your listening to the next level.
So the link to sign up is down below.
that's patreon.com slash listening
time.
And you can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast if you're ready to start practicing listening to two people talking and not just one.
That podcast is a lot of fun.
It's very educational.
And like I said, I recently did an episode with my brother-in-law who is Irish.
That was a really interesting.
You still have transcript and it's still my voice.
So it's a little bit easier than just Listening to some random English speaker this practice is Perfect for you if you want to reach a more advanced level of listening comprehension And so if you sign up to become a listening time family member You'll get to new advanced episodes every
month.
So the link to sign up is down below in the description and you also have link below to sign up for my US conversations podcast in which I talk to people from all over the country and actually I just recorded an episode recently with my brother in law.
He's actually not from the US, he's from Ireland and
So that's kind of a special episode that I wanted to record.
So if you want to listen to that, make sure to sign up for my US conversations on campus.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about overthinking.
What are some things that I have the tendency?
to overthink.
Well, the first one is over thinking about conversations that I've had.
So for me, it's common to have a conversation sometimes important or sometimes not very important.
And then afterwards, I think back and I analyze my comments.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 179 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're doing great.
Today we're gonna talk about a really interesting topic.
I hope it's interesting for you.
I like this topic because when you go deep into this topic you can learn a lot about
different people that have different types of fears.
And the topic that I'm referring to is phobia.
So you probably heard this word before, phobia is like an intense fear of something that's irrational.
Kind of it could be a fear that is about something that is scary, but maybe you have
pie spaces.
But I can understand this phobia because if you can imagine the worst claustrophobic scenario like you're stuck in a coffin or something like that.
And if you just think about that you're stuck in this coffin underground that's terrifying.
And so I think if you think of these extreme scenarios...
you can see why claustrophobia is a real phobia, but when you just examine it from like a normal everyday perspective, not these extreme situations, of course some people have an irrational fear of confined spaces like they don't want to be in rooms in spaces where the walls aren't wide enough or they don't have it.
have a ton of space.
So some people are more irrational about this.
And I should say that I love open spaces too.
I think most people do.
Most people love open spaces, but not everyone has a fear of small combined spaces.
I have worked many times for many months in a small closet when I...
first started this podcast, I think I recorded, I don't know how many episodes, but probably a few dozen episodes from a tiny little closet where I couldn't even move, I couldn't even open my arms.
So I just made do with what I had.
When you make do with something, this means that you use what is available to you.
even if it's not much.
So I just had to make do use that tiny little closet that was the only space I had to go forward this podcast.
Thankfully now I don't have to work from this closet.
But if I had claustrophobia I probably wouldn't have been able to do that.
So claustrophobia is probably a somewhat common overwhelming video.
And so is the next one.
I think this next one is one of the most common ones.
And that is a racnephobia, a fear of spiders.
And I say that this is probably one of the most common ones because I feel like even people that aren't extremely afraid of spiders, these people still find spiders creepy and kind of, ugh.
They give you this.
bad feeling when you see them move especially move all of their legs way that they walk around and if you don't have a racnephobia you say no I'm not super afraid of spiders if you just imagine waking up and looking and seeing that you have a huge spider on your chest or on your face I'm sure you would probably
screen and jump out of there.
Even if you don't have extreme arachnophobia.
So for that reason, I think that dysphobia is something that touches a lot of people to different levels.
Like I said, even if you're not extremely afraid of spiders, you probably still find them creepy.
Like me, I wouldn't say I have extreme arachnophobia, but...
I don't like spiders and I hate their legs.
I hate seeing them move.
It creeps me out.
I don't have a huge problem with killing spiders, squashing them with a paper towel.
When you squash something, that means that you press it down against some surface to kill that little bug.
I kill plenty of spiders here because...
There are a lot of spiders and what we call daddy long legs.
I don't know if these are technically in the same category as the other spiders, but these are the ones that have these skinny little legs.
They don't have a big body.
Those are super common here where I live.
So I have to kill a lot of those daddy long legs and other spiders.
a very irrational level of fear.
So I'm going to talk about five different phobias in this episode today.
You've probably heard a few of them, but maybe not all of them.
And then I'm going to do a part two, like I'm going to talk about more phobias because I find this topic interesting.
There are a lot of interesting phobias.
as well.
And I don't have a problem with that.
However, I don't want a spider to come crawl.
That would freak me out.
So I don't like spiders and I have seen some pretty big spiders.
I remember in this small village that I used to go to in Mexico.
There were some interesting bugs there.
All kinds of interesting bugs and...
specifically they had these huge spiders and I remember like we would be setting up these like plastic tables or whatever and you would look underneath it and there would be this massive spider that would start running around then that would freak me out when something freaks you out it scares you it makes you very scared right it freaks me
you out.
So that would freak me out when I would see those huge spiders.
Small spiders, I don't think that they're that creepy.
But big ones with long legs, I don't like those.
But for me, what is worse than spiders are cockroaches.
So I do kind of have a phobia of cockroaches.
And it started from certain experiences that I had.
past I won't go into detail there because I don't want to creep you out but I had some bad experiences with cockroaches and for me I absolutely hate the way that they look, the way that they move and when you turn them upside down and wiggle their legs when we use the word wiggle we're talking about someone moving something from...
side to side in a fast way.
So when you turn them upside down, stuck on their back and wiggling their legs, ugh, it's disgusting for me.
I don't even want to think about it.
Cockroaches are worse than spiders for me.
I do have a phobia of cockroaches and unfortunately, when I lived in Mexico, I encountered a lot of cockroaches.
especially in the first and second apartments where I lived, there were cockroaches and I absolutely hated these things.
I don't like cockroaches.
Spiders are bad too, but I don't have intense spiders.
Okay, the next phobia I want to talk about is Ophidiophobia.
Most of you, this probably sounds like nonsense.
You don't know what I just said.
I didn't know this word either.
This is the phobia of snakes.
And this one is a little tricky because snakes can be dangerous.
So I think it's normal to have kind of a fear of a dangerous animal.
Right, that can possibly kill you even depending on...
on the snake.
So this is kind of rational in that sense, but of course some people have this very very extreme fear of snakes where like they would probably just pass out if they see a snake.
When you pass out this means that you think lose consciousness.
So some people are so afraid of snakes that they can't even...
look at them, it just makes them wiggle their body and they don't want to even have this thought in their mind.
I definitely don't have the phobia of snakes.
Of course, I don't want to go near a venomous snake and where I live there are a lot of rattlesnakes and I am very careful when I go on hikes in nature here.
Because I am definitely someone who I would say I'm a little afraid of rattlesnakes But that's because they can bite me and they're dangerous Venom is dangerous.
That's why it's not because I am super creeped out by the way that they move Like I think people with a video phobia They're really creeped out by snakes and how they move and how they
is to talk about, but that part two will be an advanced episode.
So those of you that are listening time family members or EIPs, you'll be able to hear the part two to this episode next week.
I think I don't have the dates in front of me, but I think it's next week.
And speaking of becoming a listening time family member, you can do that if you want my advanced podcast episodes.
slither as we say.
Slither is the verb we use really just for snakes.
They don't have legs and we just move it forward in that snake-like manner that's called slithering.
So a lot of people don't like to see snakes slither or see their tongue come out of their mouth or whatever.
And I don't have a problem with this.
And in fact when I was a little kid-
like six years old or something.
Some friends and I were at this, I don't know what it was, some type of like center where they had snakes and other animals and they put this huge snake on our shoulders so we could take a picture with it.
This was a huge snake.
It was heavy so I think there were four of us.
because we needed more strength to carry the snake and we took a picture with that big snake and I had no problems with it because I knew that it wasn't poisonous, it wasn't gonna harm me.
So I don't have that phobia.
I know that certain snakes are dangerous and I want to stay away from those snakes but I don't have an irash problem with snakes.
I don't mind seeing them if I know they're not gonna attack me.
Let's see.
So that's a videophobia.
And another phobia that is maybe a little less known, like less known than claustrophobia, for example.
And that is agoraphobia.
And this is basically the fear of being in a public work.
crowded space in which escape may be difficult.
So on the surface, it sounds like the cousin of claustrophobia because it's related to spaces, but it's not the same because claustrophobia is just the fear of the confined space itself, just the fear of being in that space, right?
That's claustrophobia, whereas...
agoraphobia has more to do with the escape element.
Like, oh, there are a ton of people here and how am I going to escape if there's some disaster.
Right?
So agoraphobia might also be a little more related, not just to the space itself, but how crowded things are, how many people are there if you're...
middle of those people.
And yeah, I think that is also something that is related to claustrophobia.
But again, agoraphobia really focuses on that element of escaping something.
And when I think about this phobia, I do need to say that I have this thought sometimes when I'm in a crowded building or something like that.
And I think if there...
were some type of disaster that happened.
How fast could I get out of this building?
Or would I be able to get out of this building given the fact that there are many other people?
I think about this sometimes.
I wouldn't say I have a phobia.
Like I have no problem sitting far from the exit of some crowded building
eating dinner, I don't have any problem.
And people with agoraphobia probably have that issue.
If they go into a crowded restaurant, they probably want to sit close to the exit so that they can escape in case something happens.
So maybe some of you have that thought.
And I think I've known maybe a couple
had that issue and I think one of them, the one I can remember, I think he has this issue.
It's more because he has PTSD from being a soldier, war and so he kind of has this trauma of, oh man, I need to always know where the exit is so I can escape and paste something that happens.
So I think it was caused by a hum...
which I speak at normal speed.
So the link to sign up is down below.
And you can also use my US Conversations podcast to practice listening to my conversations with other native speakers.
Eventually, you need to be able to do that.
You need to be able to understand more than one person talking.
This is something I struggled with for a long time in Spanish until I actually...
his war days and not just necessarily a Gorifobia that comes Raindem, right?
But some people just have this without having been In some traumatic situation and there's something like that and they just have a phobia of not being able to escape when in crowded public places and I guess in a way you can understand this nowadays
because of all the disasters and terrorist attacks and shootings and things like that that happen and it's kind of in the back of people's minds like oh what if there's a terrorist attack here or something like that because that has happened a lot in the last few decades so I think that
those events that have happened have probably contributed more to this type of phobia, because people understand that this is something that can actually happen.
There can be a disastrous earthquake, a disastrous fire, a disastrous shooting, a disastrous terrorist attack.
There could be tons of things because you've seen these things on the news.
might contribute to people's fear and make them just a little more uncomfortable with being in the middle of some public crowded area where escape seems difficult, right?
So I can get how this phobia has increased in recent years, most likely because of these things we hear about in the news.
So one
other phobia that I wanted to mention is acrophobia.
You might not have heard of this word but I know that you know this phobia which is the fear of heights.
So I do not have this phobia and I'm sure many of you do and those of you that have this phobia you probably look at us that don't have this phobia as crazy because
Because for you, it probably seems so natural to have this fear of heights.
When you look over the edge of some high bridge, it probably seems perfectly natural for you to be terrified.
So I can definitely identify with you because my wife has this, she has acrophobia, and especially when we walk on high bridges.
I remember being in...
Porto Portugal with that really tall bridge really really beautiful view in that bridge and My wife did not want to go to the edge of the bridge to look over And this always happens when we're on bridges and things like that she gets vertigo I've never had vertigo so I can't tell you What that feels like I can't even really
describe it to you, but I'm sure some of you have had this.
If you have your heights, you might get vertigo when you look over the edge of some high place.
So I can't really speak from experience there, but my wife has this, so I know that this is something very common.
And of course, it kind of makes sense because it's natural to not want to fall from a high place.
Of course, I would be scared of falling from a high place too, but I don't have the fear of heights if I don't feel like I'm gonna fall.
Like, if I just look over a bridge, I don't think that I'm in danger of falling, so I don't have that fear.
I don't have this phobia.
Of course, if someone started to push me over the side of the bridge, then I would freak out.
course.
So that's how you can separate kind of the normal conventional fear of falling from a high place and maybe a more extreme aquifobia.
My wife, she can't even look over the edge of the bridge.
For me, I have no problem with that, but force might be freaked out if someone were trying to push me over the edge of the bridge.
forced myself to do this and put myself in those deep settings and then with that practice I took my listening to a very high level.
So this US Conversations Podcast is meant to help you do that same thing.
So the link to sign up is also down below and you have the transcript for this episode down below as well.
And remember to give this podcast a five star rating and...
I think that's the key difference there.
And I'll say that even though I don't have Acrophobia, that doesn't mean that I can just go skydiving and bungee jumping without any issues.
I would definitely be freaked out from those things because those things actually involve falling when you're skydiving, falling down from plain From here...
and then your bungee jumping, you're falling down, off of the bridge, I don't want to fall.
So I'm not saying that I could easily do those extreme sports because I think like anyone, I would be scared to fall down from a high point.
So even though I don't have acrophobia, I have no issue being in high places.
Don't expect me to...
post pictures of me skydiving and bungee jumping on my Instagram soon.
I don't think I'll ever do those things.
When I was younger, I did have the desire to skydive, but nowadays, no.
Ever since I became a father, no.
I am not doing any of these extreme sports that, even though they're probably pretty safe, if you go with professional, they're still that.
very very very small percentage of risk of something going wrong and so I won't be doing that anytime soon but yeah maybe some of you like that and it's been skydiving before and a bunch of jumping but that's probably not for me let's say so acrophobia this is an extremely common one but I can't say I completely identify with this
I will add though that I have a little bit of aphobia of flying not the part where you're just in the air but more so to take off taking off going into the air I do get a little nervous during that part but this is a little different it's not the fear of heights it's more it goes into the fear of flying which I don't have a big fear of flying
but I do get a little nervous when it comes to the takeoffs.
So I wanted to mention that, but I think that's it for today.
We'll talk about some other FOBIAs in next weeks at the NANDST Podcast episode.
So if you're interested in listening to that and using it to practice listening with English spoken fast, then you can go down and click on the link in the description to become a listening time family member.
And remember that it's important for you to eventually start using content that involves more than one person speaking.
And so you can use my US Conversations Podcast to help you practice with that.
That's a good introduction because I give you transcripts with definitions of key words and phrases that we use.
So it's very helpful and it's a lot of fun.
We learn a lot about the US itself.
writer of you if you can, that really helps me out.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about five different phobias.
Let me start with maybe the one that people are the most familiar with out of the five chose, which is claustrophobia.
of you probably know this, what this means already.
This is a fear of confined spaces, confined meaning that you are trapped inside of these spaces.
You're not in an open space, like the walls are all around you.
There isn't a wide open space that you can use to exit, right?
So, claustrophobia.
is I think a pretty common phobia, but people have it to different extremes.
Some people might be extremely claustrophobic, and I think a lot of people might just be a little bit claustrophobic.
And for me, for example, I don't think I have an irrational fear of combined spaces, but I will say that
I sometimes feel uncomfortable if I'm in a very tight confined space.
That's not necessarily something that makes me feel good.
So maybe I have a little bit of this, but probably not because these phobias are more referring to people that have an intense fear of that.
I don't have an intense fear of...
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 184 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're doing great today.
I hope that you're ready to practice your English with another episode.
And remember that you have the transcript for all of these episodes for free.
Each transcript is in the video.
description below each episode.
I'm mentioning that because many people still asking where the transcripts are.
So the transcript is down below.
It's for free.
So in today's episode, we're going to talk about reality TV.
Okay, so reality TV refers to television programs that aren't scripted.
I'm going to be describing something in detail here.
So in the show Survivor, people are taken to an island or to some far away country and they have to survive on this island.
But it's not a game about surviving, really.
It's part of the game, but really.
It's a competition.
So these people are divided into different tribes at first and they have to work together with their tribe to build a shelter.
A shelter refers to a place where you can go inside and sleep and be safe from the rain all day.
that shelter.
So they have to work together to build a shelter, to make a fire, to find food, all of that stuff.
But they also have to compete against the other tribe or the other tribes depending on how many tribes there are.
They have to compete with them in these physical.
competitions, sometimes they're also mental as well, not just physical, and when they win, they get different rewards, or they get immunity.
So immunity refers to the fact that if that tribe wins the challenge, then they don't have to go to what is called tribal...
council.
At tribal council, the losing tribe has to vote out one of the people.
They have to kick them off the island, basically, and that person goes home.
So if one tribe loses, they have to vote out one of the people in their tribe.
And this is where it gets really interesting.
the social and strategic aspect of the game.
So people have to vote out one of their tribe members.
And so they have to strategize and talk to other people and decide who is the best person to vote out.
They might vote someone out because they're not very strong in the different.
challenges, so they don't want them on the tribe anymore, or they might vote someone out because they don't like them, they don't like their personality, or they might also vote someone out for strategic reasons.
They think that the other person is a good strategic player, and so they want them gone because that other person.
person is a threat to them.
So there are different reasons why people might vote someone out.
And then eventually the different tribes, they merge, meaning they combine together, they merge into just one tribe, and then all of the challenges become individual or most of the challenges.
become individual.
So it's like there's only one winner, one single person who wins immunity and then everyone goes to tribal council and they have to vote someone out.
So this continues until the end of the game when there are just two or three people left and then what happens
is there are certain people on the jury, the jury in Survivor, is comprised of maybe the last nine or ten, however many people who were voted out of the game, and that jury gets to vote on who they want to win the game.
And this is really interesting because
It's not like it's a show with actors and they're saying their lines.
No, it's just real people, but there are cameras recording and these aren't actors, right?
This is reality TV.
So I think that most reality TV today is probably...
maybe someone was really good in the competitions and was really strategic in the game, but the jury just doesn't like that.
So they don't vote for that person.
So it's pretty interesting because these people that are still in the game and trying to win, they have to convince the jury to vote for them.
It's like when you go...
to court and you try to convince people that you're innocent or the other person is guilty or whatever.
It's kind of like that.
So in the end, the jury votes on a winner and of course the person with the most votes wins.
So hopefully you were able to follow that.
Like I said, that was good practice for your listening.
I won't go into that much detail.
with these other shows, but I wanted to talk about Survivor in detail because it was my favorite show.
And I thought I would give you a little bit of complicated listening practice with that one.
But yeah, that is Survivor.
Now, let me talk about American Idol.
Some of you might be familiar with this show.
I watched this show with my family when I was a kid.
And I really liked it.
There were some parts that weren't as interesting for me, but there was one aspect, one part of the show, in particular, that I loved.
And that was like the auditions at the very beginning of the show.
So basically, at these auditions, people would go to sing in front of...
three judges and they tried to do their best and then hopefully the judges would tell them that they were accepted into the competition.
So these auditions were super entertaining because they didn't only include the good auditions in this show.
They also included the...
really bad ones and it was always hilarious to watch these really bad singers try to impress the judges with their horrible singing.
This was always really funny.
Sometimes it was like too embarrassing to even watch but overall I loved that part of the show.
I loved to...
see these different auditions.
I liked watching the good people as well, but I really liked watching the bad singers.
It was always really entertaining.
So I liked that part of the show.
I also watched the competition afterwards where they would sing and people would be eliminated.
And I liked that too, but really after the...
the audition part of the show.
I would sometimes lose a little bit of interest, but American Idol was a phenomenon in the US in the past.
A lot of people watched this show.
I think Survivor and American Idol were two of the most popular reality shows ever in the US.
Many people watched the show and some of the...
winners of American Idol actually became well known artists afterwards.
So some people that won this competition went on to have a great career as a famous singer or whatever.
So American Idol helped propel some people into great careers afterwards.
And someone is...
is propelled means that they're pushed, they're given this momentum or push somewhere.
So, American Idol was a huge show in the past and I watched it as a kid.
Another reality TV show that I watched was Fear Factor.
So, Fear Factor was a show.
not very good.
Some people would even say that it's trash.
When you say that something is trash, you're saying that it's horrible.
Okay, so I know there's a lot of reality TV today that is trash that isn't good.
But when I was growing up, when I was a kid, there were some reality TV shows that I wrote.
where people would compete doing things that were really scary.
Things that a normal person would never want to do or would be really scared to do.
So they had to do these different stunts.
Stunts are like these different activities or movements that you do that are dangerous or scary.
So.
They had to do these different stunts.
They had to do things that were really intimidating, scary.
But really, the best part of this show, I think almost everyone would agree.
The best part of this show was that one of the competitions would usually involve something really disgusting, like eating certain disgusting things like cockroach.
and things like that.
And of course, this is awful, it's disgusting.
I don't know why this is so entertaining.
Just talking about it makes me feel a little embarrassed that I thought this was so fun to watch as a kid.
But when I was a kid, I love watching them do these horrible disgusting things like eating.
cockroaches or they would lie down in some container and then someone would pour spiders all over them or something.
Things like that, whenever it involved insects and spiders and animals and things like that, that was always the funnest part of the show.
For me, that would be the worst part.
about competing on this show.
None of the other stuff is that horrible for me personally like I don't have an issue with heights so if I had to go up to some very high plays and jump to another place that's very high that wouldn't be as bad for me as these horrible gross challenges with these different
bugs and things like that.
Snakes and all of that kind of stuff.
That would be the worst part for me if I had to compete in this challenge.
But yeah, Fear Factor was a pretty big show when I was growing up and the host of Fear Factor was Joe Rogan.
Some of you might be familiar with Joe Rogan.
He has one of the biggest podcasts in the world.
It's probably the biggest one that's not put out by some big company or whatever, but he has a huge podcast, so many people know who he is because of his podcast, but I first learned about Joe Rogan from Fear Factor.
He was the host of that show.
Well, that's another one that I used to watch.
Another show that was really big when I was a kid.
Again, this is up there with survivor and American Idol in terms of like the most famous, the most watched reality TV shows of all time probably.
And that is who wants to be a millionaire.
So this was a show that involved
answering different questions, you would start with the easier questions and then the questions would get harder and harder as the game went on and if you were able to survive all the way to the last question and answer it correctly you would win a million dollars so this
show was really about your knowledge.
So if you were able to compete on this show, you had to use your brains, your knowledge to answer these questions.
So the questions would always be multiple choice.
There would be four options that you could choose from and everyone that competed.
really enjoyed.
And so I thought it would be fun to talk about those shows in today's episode.
I'll try to explain how these shows worked and I'll talk about why I liked them.
I don't watch any of these shows nowadays and I don't watch reality TV nowadays, but I used to really like these shows in...
on the show would always get three lifelines as they were called.
These lifelines were like some type of help that would help them if they didn't know the answer to a question.
So they had these different lifelines that would help them.
But once they used all of those three lifelines then they didn't have any more help.
They just had to try to answer the question.
And one interesting part of this show was that each question was worth a certain amount of money.
I don't remember the amounts, but for example, it might be that the first question was worth $10.
If you answer that right, then you have $10.
And then the next question was worth $50.
If you answer that right, then now you have $50.
it was like that.
So at any point in this show, in this game, so to say, the person could say, you know what?
I don't know the answer to this question.
And so I want to stop right here and just take the money that I've already earned because maybe they've already earned $10,000.
from the question so far and so they can quit right there and then take that $10,000 in the and they would do this sometimes because if you get the question wrong, then you lose a bunch of your money.
So there were certain thresholds that once we passed them, like maybe $500 question, then...
Even if you get One of the answers wrong.
You're still gonna leave with $500.
So there were I forget how many there were a couple maybe two or three of these different thresholds that once you get there then maybe you feel like You can Just try to guess even if you don't know a certain question because you know that you'll still $500 $10,000
whatever.
But the higher you get, the more money is on the line.
When something is on the line, this means that it's at risk.
You can win it or you can lose it.
So once you reach to higher level, maybe you didn't want to take the risk of losing half the money that you already have because it's tens of thousands of
to some people would just quit so that they didn't lose a bunch of the money they had already earned.
But some people went in with the goal of becoming a millionaire and they wanted to make it to the end.
And I remember watching one person win the million dollars.
I think it was the only time I saw that live and it was super excited.
It was really fun to watch that.
But the vast majority of people on that show don't make it to the million dollar question.
But that show was really fun to watch.
I really liked it when I was growing up.
And I think that, like I said, it was one of the most popular shows, one of the most popular reality shows.
I really liked it when I was growing up.
And lastly, I just wanted to mention all of those cooking shows, those reality cooking shows, because nowadays those are some of the most popular reality TV programs, MasterChef, and all of those types of shows.
I was never a huge fan of those shows, however, I used to really like watching those shows while I was eating.
I don't know if you have done the same.
I used to turn on those shows when I was eating breakfast because it was so satisfying to food when I was watching this show where they would prepare delicious food or whatever.
For some reason it made my breakfast taste better.
So even though...
past.
So I'm going to have fun talking about these different shows and I hope that you find this episode interesting as well.
And I want to encourage you to use my advanced episodes if you haven't done so already so that you can practice listening to real English spoken fast.
So the link to sign up is down below and the link to my US Conversations podcast also down below.
Those weren't my favorite shows growing up.
I did like to watch them while I was eating.
I like to do that at the same time when I was eating breakfast, for example.
So I wanted to include that here.
But really, those other four shows were four of my favorite reality TV shows when I was growing up.
Alright, I hope this episode was interesting for you.
It might have been a little harder than my other episodes because I was describing shows in detail, but I would encourage you to re-listen to this episode, repeat it again, use the transcript if you need it, and try to understand everything.
And remember that you can start using my advanced podcast episodes to practice with real English spoken.
Hello, in that podcast I talked to native speakers from around the country about all kinds of different topics.
It's a lot of fun.
You learn a lot about the US, the different states and cities, and it's great practice for your listening because it gives you the opportunity to listen to two people talking at normal speed.
That's the skill that you'll need to do.
develop at some point.
So why not use my US Conversations podcast to start practicing with that.
The link is down below like I mentioned.
Alright let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay let me talk about some different reality TV shows that I used to really like.
So first...
I want to talk about Survivor.
For me, Survivor is the greatest reality TV show of all time.
Some people might disagree with me about that, for many people would, but I think a lot of people would also agree with me about this.
And I think Survivor has really influenced other reality TV shows
It has inspired other types of reality TV shows.
And I think that it's still going on now.
It's been going on for many years.
And this was my favorite reality TV show.
I'll talk a little bit about it.
Let me try to explain how it works.
This will be good practice for your listening.
You can...
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 158 of The Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
I hope that your English learning is going well.
I hope that you're enjoying these episodes and that this podcast has really helped you get into a routine of listening to English.
consistently every day, hopefully, because it's really helpful to repeat these episodes multiple times so that you can better understand all of the phrases, words that I'm saying.
So with these episodes you have a lot of material to work with.
So you should be doing some listening practice every day.
interesting things that students ask me about sometimes is a particular event or I should say a particular series of events around the year which are the school dances in other countries.
You probably don't have school dances or maybe you do but they're probably not
that similar to our dances.
So you might have seen these movies before.
The two most famous dances, the most important dances during the school year are homecoming which takes place at the beginning of the school year and from which takes place at the end of the school year.
And there are other dances throughout the year as well, but those are the two really big ones.
So let me talk a little bit about homecoming.
So homecoming happens towards the beginning of the school year, and it's a big deal.
And it's not just a dance, it's also a...
sporting event, particularly for football.
So there is a homecoming game, a homecoming football game.
If I remember correctly, I think there are also homecoming games for other sports.
I played basketball, but I can't really remember if we had a homecoming game.
Maybe not because I don't think the season had started yet.
I don't remember really, but the one that's big is football.
So there's a football homecoming game, which is one of the biggest games of year, and it's a really exciting event for many people.
And not only is there this football game, but there's also the election of a homecoming
coming king and queen.
So this is a big deal.
The students elect who they want to be their king and their queen.
And if I remember correctly, each class of students, meaning freshmen, sophomores, juniors, and seniors, like people in the first year, second year, third year, and fourth of high school.
they all get to elect the king and queen for their year.
And you can imagine that it's usually the really popular kids that get elected king and queen.
So it's kind of like a popularity contest.
And if you are elected king or queen, that's a big honor that you'll probably...
remember for the rest of your life and in that moment when it happens you feel like you're on top of the world.
I hate you're the most important person ever.
It really is a popularity contest I would say.
And so all of that happens and then there's a dance and this dance often takes place.
at a venue off of the school campus.
A venue is a place where an event takes place.
So for example, I remember going to one home coming that was at a hotel.
This kind of big room inside of a hotel.
But other
years homecoming was just at our school.
So it depends on the year, it depends on the school, but homecoming is a big deal to dance that people look forward to.
It's an important event.
And of course there's prom, like I mentioned, and this is kind of similar, except it happens at the end of the year.
should be your goal.
And in today's episode we're going to talk about school events.
This will be a fun one because people all around the world know something about the high school experience in the US based on the movies that they've seen or the TV shows that they've watched.
And there isn't a corresponding football game because football season is already over by then.
But there's the same type of election for prom king and prom queen.
So the same type of popularity contest takes place during this prom time.
And at my school, prom was a
dance that was for seniors or people in their last year of high school except for if you were invited by a senior.
So if a boy who was a senior asked a girl who was a junior, let's say, she could go because she was the date of that senior.
So that's how it works.
at my school, but I think this is different depending on the school.
And there are other dances as well.
This one really depends on the school.
They might have different themed dances.
One other one I can think of at my school was Morp, which is prom spelled backwards.
And so it was supposed to be like the opposite of...
It was a really informal dance with informal attire.
It was a silly dance, really.
By the way, attire refers to the clothes that you wear to some event.
And another event, it's related to homecoming, but it's also just its own event.
That is spirit week.
So this usually happens...
the week leading up to homecoming and What happens is that on each day of that week?
There's a different theme so maybe there's 70s day or pajama day or whatever and people dress up according to the theme of that day.
So if it's 70s day people
come to school dressed up as if it were the 70s, that decade.
So that's kind of a fun thing that gets people excited and it adds something fun for them, an extra reason to get excited about going to school that week.
I don't really remember spirit week that much at high school.
That's probably because I do.
didn't participate in it.
I was that type of person who would kind of just reject some of these things, some of the things we were supposed to do.
So maybe that's why I don't really remember it because I assume we had it because it's a big thing at many schools, but I just don't really remember it from my school time.
Another event that we have is Pep rallies.
So you might have seen these movies before.
Pep rallies are these events that take place before certain sporting events.
And they're meant to get people fired up for that sporting event.
When you get someone fired up,
This means that you get them really excited, passionate, and ready to go for that event.
So at my school, these rallies would take place in the middle of the school day, and we were only allowed to go if we were wearing some type of shirt or sweatshirt that had our school's name and colors.
on it.
So we all try to remember to wear our school clothes on those pep rally days so that we could leave class in the middle of the day and not have class for an hour or whatever and go to these really exciting pep rallies and these pep rallies everyone is yelling and
And people are always curious about this.
They're curious to know about some of these things that they see in movies.
And so I want to talk about some different events that happen during high school, in the US, at public schools, and particularly how some of these events...
cheering when you cheer.
This means that you yell in support of someone, right?
If you cheer for a football team, you're yelling in support of them, right?
And there are different activities at these pepper hotlies.
Someone is hosting them, usually people from the football team or whatever,
cheerleaders are there and one thing I remember from our pepper allies was that they would always do a roll call.
A roll call is what people do when they are trying to see who is present somewhere.
So maybe in class they call every person's name and that person has to raise their hand.
Let's say here.
That's a roll call, but at these pepper rallies they would do a roll call for each class of students like freshman soft-mortem years seniors and so the person would always start with the freshman and say Are the freshman here and then all the freshmen would scream and yell but then the other classes would Then that's what would always happen with the freshmen and even with
the sophomores and juniors, the seniors would always really try to boo them when it was their turn.
And then when it was the seniors turn at the end, it would be really, really loud.
The seniors would go crazy and try to make it sound like they were the most important people and there were more of them at the rally.
So that's a memory that I have.
So all in all those pep rallies
were really exciting.
They got people really fired up for different sporting events that would happen afterwards.
And it was a great way to skip class for a little while.
And another event that's really important is Gradnight.
This is only for seniors and it happens at the end of the school year.
So when...
they're about to graduate.
That's why it's called Grant Knight.
These seniors get to go somewhere usually to some amusement park to have fun all night at that park.
When I went to this Grant Knight celebration, it was at Six Flags Magic Mountain, which is a big amusement park here in Southern California.
And...
We got to spend all night at this amusement park with some other schools, other seniors from other schools, but We got to like rent out that park for that night and stay all night there and there's music and it's really fun It's kind of like the last big fun thing that people
get to do before they graduate.
So that's a big thing and different schools go to different places and I have some great memories from that night, from staying up all night with friends at this amusement park, riding the roller coasters.
It was cool.
And another event, this is not a formal event, but it.
usually happens every year is senior skip day.
So this day is the day when seniors, people in their last year of high school, don't go to school that day.
So a huge percentage of seniors just stay home on that particular day.
Again, this is not a formal day and this is something that school.
and the teachers hate.
We try to prevent this from happening.
They sometimes say that there will be a punishment if you participate in this, but people still do it.
Not everyone, obviously a lot of people still go, especially the people that really care about getting good grades and really good students.
They tend to still be.
Went for me and I was in high school during my high school career So I'm sure that you'll enjoy this episode today and as always Remember that if you need my help understanding native speakers because they speak fast and it's not clear what they're saying and their words kind of Blend together that make sure to join my membership
go that day, but other people stay home.
I don't really remember this day for me because I assume that I still went to school.
I was that type of person too.
I didn't stay home but people told me that it was senior skip day.
I would just go to school because it wasn't a big deal for me.
But for other people, it is.
And that's a tradition that's been going
for decades, at different schools.
So that's one particularly for the seniors.
And one other one I wanted to mention particularly for the seniors, which is another problematic one, the most problematic one.
And that is the senior prank day.
Okay, so a prank is like a joke.
that you play on someone else, it kind of has them as the victim of your joke, right?
So some of the seniors at some point during the school year think of what they're going to do as their prank.
And again, schools hate this, teachers hate this because these pranks can sometimes be very problematic and...
I remember before I was in high school, I think a few years before, my sister was in high school at that time.
And that year, the seniors for the senior prank day, they glued all of the doors shut.
So they put glue on all of the doors at night or something like that.
And then...
in the morning nobody could open the doors to any of the classrooms at the school.
And that was a big deal.
I think it was even on the news.
It was this huge thing and they were punished for doing that, of course.
And it was a big fiasco.
A fiasco is kind of like this big series of problems.
problems that happen.
So it can get really serious and there can be serious consequences if the prank is really over the top.
Let's say over the top means that it's kind of over the limit of what is normally expected.
And so these senior pranks can get pretty serious.
But the only senior prank that I remember.
really well when I was in high school was a pretty lame one to be honest.
The word lame is used to describe something that's not cool.
It's kind of dumb.
So it was pretty lame.
The seniors just ran through the hallways during class time with these blow horns and these noise makers, things like that to make...
a bunch of noise and disrupt people's classes.
It wasn't that creative and they didn't do it for that long.
Like I said, it wasn't that cool, it wasn't that creative.
But sometimes people get too creative and things can get a little bit out of control.
So that's not a formal event, but it's a tradition.
that seniors have been doing for many years, decades.
So I wanted to mention that.
And of course, there are other school events as well, but I'm gonna stop there for today because I'm out of time, but I hope you enjoyed hearing about these different events and I hope it was good practice for your listening and I encourage you to join my membership if you want my training to help you understand it.
You can add as speakers on the screen.
fast I'll leave the link down below that's patreon.com slash listening time and you can also sign up for my US conversations podcast to practice with my conversations that I have with other English speakers from around the country and I give you the transcript for that and you also have the definitions of keywords and phrases that we use.
So the link is also down below that's patreon.com
So you can get my training to help you understand native speakers.
You'll get my listening practice seminars, which help you understand the sound patterns in English, the different combinations of sounds that are difficult to understand.
I help you with all of that.
And if you choose to become a listening time family member in particular, you'll
get my advanced podcast episodes in which I speak at normal speed.
So that's great practice to help you reach the advanced level of listening.
And you can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast.
If you want to practice with my conversations that I have with other English speakers from all around the country, I talk to people from different states, different cities.
And we have fun, interesting conversations about their state, their city, and a lot of different topics.
So it's really educational, really fun, and great practice for your listening.
And as always, remember that you have the transcript of this episode down below as well.
All right, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You...
know what time it is, it's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about some different school events in public schools in the United States.
And particularly I'm talking about high school because that's the most significant school period for most of us.
And this is what you often see in movie.
and on TV and things like that.
And so you might have some ideas already about American culture based on high school movies or scenes that take place at high schools in the US when you watch movies, TV shows.
It's an interesting topic, I think.
And one of the most...
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 167 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great.
I hope that your English learning is going well and that you're staying consistent with it.
And I hope you've enjoyed the new phrasal verb episodes that I've been...
and leasing, I really hope that you like that format as well and then you're able to do even more listening practice now because now you have two episodes per week with the transcript and of course you're learning phrasal verbs specifically with those other episodes but it's still listening practice so I hope.
area.
Okay, if someone doesn't have that natural ability in some yield, some domain, some skill, and they have to work really hard in order to improve, like they have to work harder than the average person does, then we would probably say that that person is not talented.
in that specific skill.
So in my opinion I think that we all have at least one talent.
I think we probably all have more than one.
But let's just say that we all have at least one and I've heard some people say I'm just not talented.
I'm not talented at anything.
And I don't think that's true.
I think that that just means that that person hasn't really considered all of their strengths.
Because talent isn't just related to sports or music or things like that.
For example, you might be talented at cooking or you might be talented at hot...
hospitality, like making people feel at home when they come visit you at your house.
So that might not be something that people even realize that counts as a talent, but it does.
Right?
Anything that you have a natural ability to do well without needing to maybe work as hard.
add it as other people, maybe you don't struggle as much as other people, that's the talent.
So I encourage all of you to consider your talents and think about what things you're naturally good at.
I think that that's a good exercise for us to consider our own talents and it's a
very common thing for people to look at others and maybe talk about their talents without knowing if they're actually talented at those things or if they had to work really hard at those things.
I can think of a few areas in which I hear this a lot.
is the language learning.
So I've heard a lot of people who have never studied a language or they've never succeeded in learning a language.
They often say this, they say, you're really talented at learning languages or he's a very talented language learner.
And yes, sometimes the person has a more natural ability.
to learn languages.
However, that I think is not the biggest factor here and I think that that really discounts it kind of disregards all of the time that this person spends language learning.
I don't consider myself a talented language learner.
I think that
I'm probably just average at it.
However, I've spent a decent amount of time learning languages like when I learned Spanish.
I spent tons of hours with Spanish.
And so some people have told me that I'm a talented language learner just because I learned Spanish to a pretty high level.
but they're disregarding all of the hours that I put into that language.
By the way, we say that you put time into something to mean that you dedicate time to that thing.
So when they say that to me, they're kind of disregarding all the time I put into learning Spanish.
So when they say that to me, they're kind of disregarding all the time I put into that thing.
I hope you've been enjoying those so far.
And in today's episode, we're gonna talk about talent.
So this is an interesting topic because many people talk about what the difference is between someone who is talented at something, someone who had to work really hard to get good at something.
And another thing to consider with language learning is that once you learn one foreign language, it's easier to learn more.
That's a phenomenon that happens.
And so sometimes you'll see someone who has learned three foreign languages, for example.
And you don't realize that after the first foreign language, the other two...
were actually much easier for that person to learn.
So it's not just that they have talent, they might have talent for sure, but if they spend a lot of time learning languages, it's very possible for them to first learn one with a lot of hard work and then learn another one and learn another one and the process gets.
gets more familiar and easier with each language.
So it's not just talent, right?
And in sports, sometimes people talk about this athlete is naturally talented or that athlete isn't as naturally talented.
He had to work harder and really it's kind of hard to determine that, right?
Because...
All athletes at the professional level had to work hard to reach that level.
So it's kind of hard to tell who was talented and who wasn't as talented because they all worked hard to reach a high level.
I think of my aunt, for example, she was an amazing tennis player when she was younger.
She actually reached...
the ranking of number two in California, if I'm not mistaken, when she was in high school, and it would be easy to just say that she was talented at 10s.
However, that would completely disregard the hundreds and hundreds or thousands of hours that she dedicated to 10s.
Right, so I don't know if it was more...
talent or hard work.
Right?
And one other area that I think people often like to say that someone is just naturally talented in is public speaking.
And yes, some people are naturally talented when it comes to public speaking.
But people that are talented, they still...
train if they want to become professional speakers or politicians or people who make speeches a lot they still have to train a lot and someone who's not a naturally talented speaker Can probably reach the same level the same high level Just by working really hard.
So I think that
It's kind of hard to distinguish whether it was talent or hard work or what percentage of each thing caused someone to reach a certain level.
In my opinion, I view talent as the thing that helps orient us.
When something orients you, it kind of moves you into...
the right position or going in the right direction.
So talent, orient us towards what we will be good at eventually if we do it.
It's the thing that helps us maybe choose what to do because it is something we're naturally interested in or it's something.
that we can do easily.
And so that kind of helps show us maybe what direction we should go in terms of our career or hobby or whatever.
And then hard work is really what helps us reach great success.
It helps us reach a high level in that area.
So talent can maybe push us to go for
and what the difference is and how these two things work.
Talent and hard work.
So I thought that this would be an interesting concept to talk about and I'll talk a little bit in general about that and I'll talk about what I'm talented at in my opinion and what I'm definitely not talented at.
further in a certain area, but hard work is really what helps us succeed and reach a high level.
Okay, now let me talk about things that I'm talented at.
In my opinion, I wrote down three things here.
The first thing is writing.
Writing has always come naturally to me.
I've worked as a writing tutor.
even for a little while and I helped foreigners in the US with their essay writing and that was a very natural job for me.
I remember being in school and seeing how much my classmates struggled with their essay writing and it was baffling to me really.
By the way, the word baffling means...
really confusing or perplexing.
I was baffled by how hard it was for people to write essays.
It seemed like such an easy task for me, but almost everyone I knew had trouble with this.
And when that's the case, that usually means that you're talented in that area.
Because...
I didn't practice writing essays all the time.
It was just something that came naturally to me.
And I'm not saying that I love writing essays, for example.
But I like writing in general.
I like creative writing.
I like writing poetry and songs and things like that.
So that's a good indication that I'm talented at it.
I can make...
things sound pretty good in written form.
However, I'm not saying that I'm a really gifted writer or anything like that.
I don't think I'll ever write a very good successful novel, for example.
I'd love to complete a novel at some point in my life, but if I do, I don't think it'll be.
that great.
I don't think my talent compares to famous authors' talents, of course, definitely not.
However, it's something I feel like I have natural ability in.
I can write pretty easily.
So that's a talent that I have.
Another talent that I think that I have, this is
probably wouldn't think of when trying to just think of your talents and that is reading people.
When we say that you need someone, we're saying that you can analyze them and determine maybe what they feel, what they're thinking, how they feel in a particular situation.
So when I'm in social situations, I can usually look at the people around me that I'm interacting with, and I feel like I can read them more easily than other people can.
I feel like I can empathize with them, and I can talk to them, I think, based on...
My reading of them so based on the things that they're saying to me how they're responding how They're moving me even things like that sometimes I watch other people interact and I can see that one of those people like one of the two people in the conversation is is not
reading the other person well and like the other person is maybe uncomfortable or not interested in the conversation or whatever and I can't believe that the other person can't see this and they can't read the person they're talking to and see that that person does not want to talk to them or that person is not interested
So, I'm sure that you'll enjoy hearing about that, the things that come natural to me, and the things that don't.
By the way, when we say that something comes naturally to someone, we're saying that it's natural for them to do it.
They have a natural ability to do that.
So, you'll hear what comes naturally to me and what.
in that subject or whatever.
That's something that I pick up on really easily.
When you pick up on something, this means that you can identify it.
You can identify that specific thing.
So I can pick up on that really easily when I see other people talking in one person.
and is not reading the other person well, that's really obvious to me.
So that's why I would say that one of my talents is reading people.
And one other talent I was able to think of, this one is kind of a random one, not really important, but I think that I'm talented at racket sports.
So sports that required you.
to use a racket like tennis, a badminton, or also ping pong like a paddle, not just a racket, but like a paddle like ping pong or paddle ball.
I haven't played all of these sports like at a high level or anything.
The only one that I really practiced for years was tennis.
But sometimes I have the opportunity to play ping pong or even badminton or paddle ball at the beach or whatever.
And it's pretty clear that this is something that I'm naturally drawn to.
Like I like these sports when you're drawn to something.
That means that you're attracted.
to it.
So I'm naturally drawn to these types of sports and it just feels pretty easy for me to play them.
So that's a good indication that I have some talent when it comes to these types of sports.
But that's maybe not the most important talent.
I don't really value that talent that much.
Okay.
What am I not talented at?
I wrote down a few things that I definitely not talented at.
The first one is art.
So I can compare myself to my sister, for example, who is an art teacher.
That's what she does.
And she's an artist, you could say.
My sister really took to art as a kid.
when you take to something, this means that when you start it, you have a natural liking for it and a natural ability to do that thing.
So my sister took to art and I did not.
And I'm still horrible today when it comes to art and it's not.
fun for me either.
So I'm a terrible artist.
I can't draw.
I can't paint.
I can't do anything like that.
But my sister can't, for example, and we grew up in the same house, the same environment.
So you can see that she had a natural talent for that.
She still does, of course, and I definitely don't.
So that's one.
Another thing that I'm definitely not talented at is cooking.
When I'm in the kitchen, I am completely lost.
I don't belong in there at all.
When I help cook, that's very rare, but sometimes I will help with the cooking process.
On those occasions, I usually make things worse.
I usually actually hurt the process.
instead of helping it.
I can't do things correctly.
I don't have the natural ability to use my hands to cut or slice or do things like that.
It's like I lack common sense in the kitchen.
I can't do basic things.
By the way, when you say that you lack something, that means that you don't have it.
definitely does.
And remember that you can start using my advanced podcast episodes if you feel ready.
In those episodes I speak at normal speed.
So you have the opportunity to practice with native English, with real English that's spoken fast.
So that's definitely the next step for you.
You should challenge yourself with that type of...
So I lack common sense and I lack the basic skills that you need to cook.
And when I try to cook, I do it extremely slowly.
It takes me a really long time to do different things, especially cutting and preparing things like vegetables.
That takes me forever.
So I'm definitely...
not talented at cooking.
And one other thing I'm definitely not talented at is cardio activities.
So in other words, like running or doing something like that for long distances without stopping.
I've always been really bad at this.
This has never come actually to me even when I played sports, like in high school when I played basketball.
I always got tired from running back and forth more easily than my teammates did.
And I was never good at swimming long distances.
I was never good at running long distances, even though I'm trying to get better at that.
Now it's something that I've never been good at.
It's never been a natural thing for me.
And I remember playing soccer, for example, and when I had to play in the midfield, like the people in the middle that have to run a lot, this was really hard for me.
I hated being in the midfield.
So as you can see, cardio activities are something that I'm not talented at.
However, like I said,
I'm trying to work hard at running so that I can get better.
So even if there's something that definitely not talented at, you can still work really hard and actually get better at that thing.
That's something good that we can all do.
So I think that's it for today.
I hope you enjoyed this episode.
I hope it got you thinking about the things that you're talented at.
And of course, you can use my advanced podcast episodes if you feel ready to practice with wish-spoken at normal speed.
So go down below and click on the link to sign up to become a listening time family member and you'll get two new advanced episodes every month with the transcript of course.
you can also use my U.S.
Conversations Podcast if you feel ready to practice listening to two people talking.
And it's really fun, it's really interesting.
And you have the transcript for those episodes as well.
So the link to sign up is also down below.
And you have the transcript for this episode down below as well.
Alright, thank you for listening to this episode and I'll talk to you all.
content to help you reach a higher level where you can actually understand people when they speak normally.
So if you go down below and click on the link to sign up, you can become a listening time family member.
If you want those advanced episodes, you'll get two every month.
So you can go down and sign up if you're interested and you can.
also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast if you want to practice with two people talking and not just one.
In that podcast I talked to people from all over the country about different topics, about different cities and states in the US.
It's really interesting, it's really fun.
Of course I provide the transcript for that.
So if you're interested in that link...
is also down below.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about talent.
So first of all, what is talent?
Well, talent is a natural ability that allows someone to excel at something without needing to
work as hard.
So if someone is naturally better at something than the average person, let's say, and they don't need to practice quite as much in order to reach a higher level, then I think we can safely say that that person is talented in that area.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 129 of the Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
I hope you're all doing well.
I hope that your English learning is going great.
And at the time that this episode is released, it will be the week of Thanksgiving here in the US.
And so that's what
I want to talk about today.
I'm going to talk about Thanksgiving.
I'll talk about this holiday, origins of the holiday, some of the food that people like to eat here on Thanksgiving, and I'll talk about some of the things that I'm thankful for from this year, from 2023.
So hopefully you'll enjoy this episode and a lot of people are curious.
the English settlers coming.
When we say higher to something, we're saying before something.
So, higher to the Mayflower bringing the pilgrims over.
These Wampanoag people were already there.
And of course there was a lot of contact between the settlers and natives and in 1621 there was an autumn harvest feast.
So autumn referring to the season, of course, and the harvest, referring to the crops that you grow on your land, and then you harvest them, and then you can eat them and use them in different ways.
That's the harvest part, and then a feast.
A feast just refers to a big meal that you have.
with multiple people, right?
So they had an autumn harvest feast with the pilgrims and the Wampanoac people.
And so that is what most people believe to be the first Thanksgiving meal, was that meal, that feast that they shared.
I don't know if this is accurate and I think that no one can say 100% for sure if this is accurate, but I think
that that's what is generally considered to be true.
So that's a little bit about the first Thanksgiving.
So now what is Thanksgiving about?
Because at that time it was an autumn feast and it was between two different groups of people, right?
And there was some significance to that that the natives were eating with the settlers and sharing this meal together.
Nowadays that's...
not the thing that most people think about when they think about Thanksgiving.
Now Thanksgiving is generally thought of to be a day where you get together with your family, you eat an amazing meal, and you show gratitude for the things that you have.
When you say that you show gratitude for saying that you express the fact that you're thankful.
per things.
So that's more or less what people think about today when they think about Thanksgiving.
And I want to mention that Thanksgiving is not the most important holiday in the US in my opinion.
So I get this question all the time or I hear people say this all the time from other countries that I talk to.
They say Thanksgiving seems like the most important holiday.
in the US.
They'll have this assumption and I would definitely disagree with this.
I would say that Christmas is by far the most important holiday Thanksgiving might be number two for a lot of people but it's not number one for most people.
So for example I went many years without celebrating Thanksgiving because I didn't live near my family and I didn't come.
back home for Thanksgiving and it was sad but it wasn't a huge deal.
I wasn't completely depressed that I wasn't celebrating Thanksgiving.
However, when I was not home for Christmas, I had to celebrate Christmas with someone with some people because I can't imagine not celebrating Christmas one year.
However, I can.
imagine not celebrating Thanksgiving because I did celebrate it for almost a decade.
So it's not as important as Christmas in my opinion, but it's an important holiday.
Okay, now let me talk a little bit about some of the food that we eat on Thanksgiving.
So the meal that we have on this holiday is similar to the meal that we have on Christmas.
So the
But dishes are very similar and a lot of them are the same.
The biggest difference is that Thanksgiving is famous for Turkey.
And this is kind of the protagonist of the meal for many families.
This is the main character, let's say.
For Christmas, some people eat turkey.
That's true.
However, I think that it's more...
about Thanksgiving because it's not something that you have all around the world.
It's more of a regional thing in the US, I think in Canada.
I'm not sure where else, but you don't have Thanksgiving all over the world.
So a lot of people are curious about this topic if they've never celebrated Thanksgiving in the US before.
So we'll talk about that today.
common to eat ham on Christmas.
And this is one of my favorite things during the Christmas meal is eating ham.
So I associate ham with Christmas and turkey with Thanksgiving.
However, the side dishes are very similar and a lot of them are the same.
So I just refer to all of this as holiday food in the US.
And this is one of the best things about celebrating these holidays in the US Compared to maybe celebrating Christmas in other countries Because the US has a lot of food that is meant for these holidays So there is a lot of food that's specifically linked to these holidays And I know you have this in other countries as well However
my experience talking to students from different countries and living in Mexico for many years, there usually isn't as much specific holiday food that you only eat during this season, during the Thanksgiving or Christmas season.
Whereas in the U.S., there are a lot of dishes where if you just say the name of the dish, immediately people think of Christmas or they think of.
Thanksgiving.
So that was one of my complaints when I celebrated Christmas in Mexico is I felt that there was some holiday food, but not nearly as much as in the US because a lot of the holiday food that we ate in Mexico is food that you might also eat during other parts of the year.
There are some things that are definitely associated with Christmas.
However, in my experience, not as much as the holiday food in the US.
So, for example, if you think of the Christmas ham, if you see the sight of that ham that's sliced, and bin slices, you automatically think of Christmas.
Or if you see a turkey coming out of the oven, then you automatically think of Thanksgiving.
And there are...
other dishes like this as well.
For example stuffing.
So this is kind of a wet bread pudding.
I guess you could call it.
That traditionally was stuffed inside the turkey to cook with the turkey.
However, you don't need to do that.
And I read that it can actually be dangerous.
You don't do it correctly, but that's what you do.
where the name comes from, stuffing.
It was stuffed in the meat of the turkey.
So if someone says, no, it's stuffing, you immediately think of Thanksgiving, usually.
Another one is cranberry sauce.
There's this special sauce that it's really delicious.
And it kind of enhances the other dishes.
The word enhance refers to making...
something better.
And so when I say that the cranberry sauce enhances other dishes, I'm saying that you can eat the cranberry sauce with these other side dishes or with the turkey and it creates a really delicious combination.
I like eating turkey with this cranberry sauce.
So that's a really tasty combo.
in my opinion.
And then with the turkey there is white meat and dark meat.
So I prefer dark meat because it has more flavor but some people like white meat.
So the turkey has both.
It has white meat and dark meat and people will normally ask you do you want white or dark?
Right.
In my opinion if you eat white meat then you sh-
should pair it with this cranberry sauce.
When I say that you pair something with something else, this means that you put the two things together.
So I think that the white meat can be a little bit dry and without a lot of flavor.
So I like to pair it with the cranberry sauce and this enhances the experience, the flavor of turkey.
And remember that if you feel ready to practice with real conversations, in which I speak to a native speaker and we talk normally and naturally, then make sure to sign up for my US Conversations podcast.
I release one new episode every month, and it's a long conversation between me and someone else from a different part of the US.
And of course, you have the transcript.
So cranberry sauce is another one that people will immediately associate with Thanksgiving, usually.
And another one could be sweet potato casserole.
This is one of my favorite dishes because it's not a dessert, however, it's sweet.
So it's kind of an interesting side dish where you have these sweet potatoes, which are in general.
sweet, right?
And then you can also put things like brown sugar or marshmallows or things like that that can make it even sweeter.
If you don't know what a marshmallow is, this is that white soft food that you usually roast over a fire in your camping.
This is a marshmallow.
So some people add marshmallows to this sweet potato casserole.
and it's really delicious.
I've never had a bad sweet potato casserole.
It's kind of hard to go wrong with this dish.
So that's another one where if you say that people immediately think of Thanksgiving or Christmas.
And one other one that I like is green bean casserole.
So this is another casserole that you bake in the oven and it's with green beans and other things.
Usually this is a associate
with holidays, with Thanksgiving and Christmas.
So that's another one.
And then there are other dishes that we can have at other times during the year, but they're also very related to these two holidays.
So for example, mashed potatoes and gravy.
You can eat that anytime throughout the year.
However, it's hard for me to imagine.
Thanksgiving meal without mashed potatoes and without gravy.
So that's one that's not just particular to Thanksgiving.
However, I can't imagine Thanksgiving without it.
And there are other things like dinner rolls, a roll in this context refers to a piece of bread.
It's usually really fluffy on the inside.
It's soft and delicious.
You have...
butter to it.
It's really good.
My mouth is watering just thinking about it.
By the way, when we say that your mouth is watering, they're saying that you are salivating your mouth is producing saliva because you're imagining eating something.
You say your mouth is watering.
And one of the most popular desserts that we eat during Thanksgiving is high.
Things like pumpkin.
pie, pecan pie, apple pie, we have tons of different pies.
That's one of my favorite desserts that we eat during Thanksgiving.
And there are many other dishes that are associated with Thanksgiving or with Christmas.
Those are just a handful of them and some of my favorites.
And now I want to talk a little bit about what I'm thankful for this year.
because on Thanksgiving it's good to express gratitude, it's good to say what you're thankful for and to reflect on these blessings that you have in your life.
So there are many things that I thank God for this year that I just really appreciate.
One of the things that comes to mind is the end of my wife's immigration process.
So
So at the very end of last year, we finished the immigration process for my wife.
And this year is the year that we have established ourselves in the US, me being a citizen and she being a resident.
So we had been waiting for that process to end for so long.
We constantly thought.
about the immigration process and it was often stressful to have to wait and go through the next step in the process and then wait and then have to travel for interview and do all of these different things and we hated that feeling of not being sure where we were going to live in the future and just being in this process.
for each episode.
And you also have the definitions of keywords and phrases that we use during the conversation.
So if you're interested in that, make sure to click on the link in the episode description below this episode.
That's patreon.com slash us conversations.
And if you want my training for your pronunciation and your listening, then make sure to join my membership.
So you can get eyes.
And so when she finally finished the process and we moved up here, this was a huge relief for us.
The word relief refers to that feeling that you get when you were feeling bad and then now that's gone away.
You feel relief.
So this year is our first year living in the US legally.
and we can start to establish ourselves here and I'm extremely thankful that we got through that process and that we're now living here.
This year has been a really great year being able to be up in the US, have my wife here, have my son here, and that leads me to my next thing that I'm really thankful for this year is that.
I've been able to spend a lot of time with my parents and with my sister and her family.
So they all live in the US and so when I lived in Mexico all those years, it was hard for me to see them on a regular basis.
And so now this year has been the first time when all of us can get together and watch our kids grow up together.
and do all of that, it's a big blessing for me.
I was really looking forward to being able to do this at some point and now this year we can do it.
So I'm very happy about that.
I'm very happy to be with my parents as I've mentioned before.
My mom has very severe health issues and so it's been really great to be with her here.
and to help out a little bit and that's been awesome.
And of course, spending time with dad and seeing my nephew and now my new niece because my sister just gave birth to another kid.
So I get to be part of my nephew and my niece's life and that's really cool.
So I'm very thankful for that and I'm very thankful for...
my own family, for my wife, for my son.
It's been great to watch him grow up more this year.
It's been great to watch him develop and start to talk and do all of those cool things.
That's been a huge blessing.
It's been great to be able to do fun things with my wife and my son up here in the US.
So I'm thankful for my own family.
I'm thankful.
for my church.
I have a church up here, I really like and the members awesome and that's a big part of my life and it's something that I'm very thankful for.
It's something that I can't go without.
When you go without something, we're saying that you don't have it.
You don't use or have something and just continue with...
out that.
So I can't go without that.
I'm really thankful for my church as well.
I'm really thankful for my job.
So I've been able to reach a lot of people with this content and I've received many messages from people thanking me for helping them and providing this content that's been useful for their listening practice.
And of course my name is...
membership, which has helped a lot of people start to understand the sounds of English and understand native speakers better and pronounce things better.
So I'm very thankful that I've been able to develop this my career and be able to help a lot of people with this free content and also the paid content and...
it's really cool to have a job like that where you're helping multiple people.
It's great to help one person, but it's even cooler in my opinion to help more than one person.
So I've been really thankful for that that I still have this job, this activity that I can live on, and that's been a big blessing.
And one other thing that I'm really...
specialized training to help you pronounce English better and also listen and understand more effectively.
So the link is also in the description below this episode.
And if you like this podcast, please share it with anyone else you know who's learned English and give it a five star rating and a writer review.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
thankful for this year is my audience.
All of you.
As I already mentioned, I receive a lot of messages from you.
I can't respond to all of them, unfortunately, because they come at me from different angles, some from different social media platforms.
And I'm not the best person at leaving all my messages and you've probably seen that by now that I'm not the
connected person on social media or whatever.
However, I want to thank all of you, those of you that send me messages and just all of you for listening, for helping you do what I do.
The fact that I have listeners from all over the world is really cool.
It motivates me to continue doing this and of course for those of
that are members, my membership.
I really appreciate your support.
And for those of you that have signed up for my new podcast, I really appreciate you as well.
So I'm thankful for all of you.
I'm thankful for my audience.
I wanted to say that here, because it's important for me to express that, especially during this episode, about Thanksgiving.
So thank you all again.
And I'm thankful for many more things as well, but those were just a few that I wanted to mention.
All right, well, that's it for today.
I hope that this episode was interesting for you.
I hope that if you're in the US or Canada or wherever and you're celebrating Thanksgiving this week, that you have a great Thanksgiving with your family or your friends, and I hope that you can reflect on
some of the things that you're thankful for as well.
And remember that if you need more help, if you need my specialized training to understand native speakers better or to pronounce more correctly, then make sure to join my membership and you'll get my specialized training.
And if you're ready for real conversations, if you want to practice with real English between native speakers, then make sure to sign up for my US conference.
conversations podcast and you'll get a new conversation every month with the transcript and with the definitions of keywords.
So the link to that is down below.
That's patreon.com slash US conversations.
And if you like this podcast, I'd really appreciate it.
If you could share it with different people, you know who are learning English.
And please give it a five-star rating and writer review if you can.
Alright, thank you so much for...
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about Thanksgiving.
First, let me talk a little bit about the origins of Thanksgiving, where it came from.
So it's generally believed that Thanksgiving originated in the year 1621.
So what was happening at that time?
Well, there were English settlers and aindand calls for name.
we would call pilgrims that came over on the Mayflower ship.
This was maybe the most famous ship that went back and forth between Europe and what is now the US that went back and forth between Europe and America.
And so these pilgrims are the people who came start
starting in 1620, I believe, and then all throughout the 1620s, they came taking this Mayflower ship and they established Plymouth Colony and that's in Massachusetts.
So this is one of the most famous colonies that the English settlers established in the US.
It was the second permanent.
colony in America.
So it was one of the most significant ones.
And so these pilgrims, who established the Plymouth colony, they were in contact with some of the native people.
So specifically for this Thanksgiving story, we're talking about the Wampanoag people.
So these are native Americans who were here prior to...
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor.
You're listening to episode 164 of The Listening Time Podcast.
You can probably tell that I'm still sick in the last episode.
I mentioned that my whole family was sick and I recorded that episode yesterday.
So today I'm still sick.
I have...
more congestion today than I did yesterday I think and we're all still sick nothing too serious but it's a little bit annoying of course so I apologize for the sound of my sick voice but hopefully you don't mind and in today's episode we're gonna talk about the golden rule so the golden rule is the term that we offer
the neighbor, right?
Or if someone is throwing a big party late into the night, the neighbors might have trouble sleeping, right?
Because of all the noise.
Or if someone's dog is barking all day long, that can definitely annoy people.
Or I can think of one that happens.
to me a few years ago when I was living in an apartment and we were paying more than the other renters in that apartment building because our apartment had a terrace and it had the best parking space.
So because of that we paid significantly more than the other renters in the other apartments.
And for a while, we didn't have a car, and so we didn't have a car parked in that space most of the time.
But we would have visitors sometimes that would come and use that space because it was our space that we were paying for.
But one of our neighbors who saw that we didn't use the space.
that much, he decided to just park his motorcycle there.
Even though he knew that was our space and it wasn't his, he thought, well, they're not using it, so I'm going to take it.
And that's something that I would never think of doing to another neighbor of mine if I knew that they were paying for parking space.
I wouldn't assume that I can park there.
So even things like parking spaces are problematic sometimes with neighbors.
And there are plenty of other issues that could come up.
And this brings us back to the Golden Rule.
Should we treat our neighbors as if we don't care about them?
For sure.
would be treat our neighbors the same way that we would like them to treat us.
I don't think that most people want their neighbors to play their music really loud and park in their parking spaces and throw crazy parties into the middle of the night when we try to sleep.
Most people don't like that.
They don't like when other people do that.
They themselves do that.
So it's inconsistent, right?
If you don't want your neighbors to do that, then you shouldn't do that either.
It's pretty simple.
However, people can easily forget about the people around them, the neighbors, when they're in their own home, and they feel like they can do whatever they want.
It's not until their neighbors start to do those things that these same people realize that they don't like that behavior.
And I mentioned this as well because I've had neighbors that have done some of these things, but they complain when other people do these things.
And that doesn't make sense.
If you do it and you think it's okay, why do you get mad when neighbors do the same thing?
So I think that if we practice the golden rule with our neighbors, then we will all have a peaceful living situation for the most part.
So another area of life in which it's good to practice the golden rule.
is when dealing with strangers in public.
And I know that this can be hard because we tell ourselves, I'm never gonna see this person again.
I'm never gonna see these people again.
So it doesn't matter if I do something, that makes them mad or whatever, because I will never have to deal with them again after today.
And that's probably...
to talk about the idea of treating people how we want to be treated.
And this golden rule comes from Matthew 712 in Bible.
This is not a new concept.
And it's something that most people know about and they know that they should follow this rule.
They should treat others the way...
true.
However, we don't like when strangers do things that make us mad, even though we know that we won't see them again, either.
Right?
It goes both ways.
When we say that something goes both ways, that means that it happens in both directions.
So, for example, it's
something very common for people to get mad at workers that are working at certain stores.
And I've done this too.
I'm not saying that.
It's just other people.
I've also gotten mad at employees at certain stores.
But some people really treat workers very poorly if...
they're not really, really happy with the service.
And I get that we wanna have good service and be respected.
However, I think it's important not to go overboard and get really mad at employees that are maybe not doing the best job.
By the way, when you say that you go overboard, we're saying that you go to...
the extreme exaggerate in your reaction or your action, let's say.
And so if you're not receiving the best service, it's perfectly fine to say that and to sometimes even talk to the manager about it.
But there are many cases in which people aren't just simply complaining about it.
bad service, they're just really treating these workers really bad, maybe because they themselves are in a bad mood or whatever.
And I don't think that's a good thing to do.
And imagine if you at your workplace had to deal with people coming in, yelling at you, getting mad at you, I'm not talking about your boss.
Maybe that happens to someone.
Sometimes I'm talking about just strangers who don't work there.
Imagine if you were working at your office and strangers come in and start yelling at you and telling you that you're doing a terrible job.
You probably wouldn't like that.
And yeah, sometimes employees do a terrible job for sure.
And it's a legitimate feeling to be frustrating.
by that when you're not being treated well.
But I think we should not just say, well, I'm never going to see this worker again.
So I can just yell and scream at him and leave.
And there will be no consequences because we wouldn't want other people to do that to us in our workplace.
Right?
So that's kind of what I'm saying here.
Another group of strangers who we share.
treat according to the Golden Rule is other drivers when we're driving.
This is something that is very important in my opinion.
I think that we shouldn't think of ourselves as being the kings and queens of the road and we can do what we want and we can cut people off to cut someone off means...
that you go right in front of them, so they have to break really hard, right?
You know what I'm talking about.
So we shouldn't cut people off and be aggressive and run red lights.
We sometimes think, ah, no one is affected by it, but yes, people are affected when driver runs a red light.
This means that the person goes through the intersection
even though the light is already red.
Okay, that affects other people, and it puts other people in danger.
And one other one I can think of is, this happened a lot when I was living in Mexico.
Someone might be trying to turn right on a green light, but they're waiting for the pedestrians to cross the street.
They're waiting for them.
So they can...
that they themselves want to be treated.
And I think that this is a good topic to talk about and to talk about some different areas or lives in which we can practice this golden rule.
So I chose a few different areas that I thought of that are relevant to me at least and maybe they will be to you too.
turn after those people have already walked across the street.
And then cars behind this car start honking their horns and yelling, getting mad, that this person is simply waiting for the person to finish crossing the street.
So I think that's crazy, that's ridiculous.
Imagine if you were présent...
someone waiting for a pedestrian to cross the street and everyone behind you is getting mad at you and honking.
Or imagine if you're the pedestrian.
Imagine if you're someone crossing a busy intersection and you know that all of these other cars are honking at this one driver because he's letting you cross the street safely.
You probably wouldn't be happy.
about that.
So you also shouldn't do that when other people are waiting for pedestrians to cross the street.
So again, this is the golden rule.
We shouldn't just think that our actions in our car only affect us, right?
We should drive how we would want other people around us to drive.
So I think that's important.
Another instance in which I think it's good to practice the Gold Rule is when you encounter new people in an environment in which you are very comfortable.
So for example, when there's a new person at work and you've already been there for a long time, you have your friends at the office and you're comfortable.
And a new person.
and comes in.
Or an even better example would be in school when there's a new student who comes in middle of the year and they have no friends at that school.
They don't know anyone, but you do have friends.
You are comfortable there.
I think that it's a really good thing to go up and talk to them, new person, befriend them, when you befriend someone.
one that means that you make friends with them.
So the friend that invite them to come sit with you at lunch or whatever.
And I think that for us, if we were in that situation, if we were the new kid in school and we don't know anyone, we're really nervous and everyone else knows each other already, we would want someone.
to come up to us and help us out.
Be friendly to us and invite us to hang out with them, their friends.
I think we would all want that, right?
So I think that if we want that, it's important that we try to do that for other people.
I think that that's a great way to practice this golden rule.
We want other people.
to include us and welcome us so we should include the new guy, the new girl or whatever and welcome them into our friend group.
Obviously we don't have to make good friends with them if they're not our type person of course but you can at least be friendly to them and make them feel a little bit better.
and not really scared and nervous about meeting the new person, right?
Or maybe a new neighbor on your street in the US in the past, it was very, very normal for people to go over and visit a new neighbor when they see that someone has just moved into a house on their street.
People would go over...
and bring them homemade cookies or cake or something like that and welcome them to the neighborhood.
I don't think this is as common now as it was in the past, but I think that's a cool custom, cool way to help a new neighbor feel welcome because we would also like our neighbors to make us feel welcome.
So I'm sure this will be a good topic to talk about today.
And before we start, I want to remind you that you can sign up for my advanced podcast episodes to practice with real English spoken facts.
So if you become a listening time family member, you'll get two new advanced episodes every month.
And you can also sign up for my US Conversations podcast to practice with my conversations with other...
welcome.
You move to a new neighborhood, for example.
And one other group of people that I think it's important to practice the golden rule with is foreigners and tourists in your country.
So we always want to feel welcome and treated well when we travel abroad.
We go on vacation and travel to...
another country or when we live abroad for a while, or maybe we go to another country to live permanently.
We want other people, the locals there, to welcome us and treat us well.
So I think it's important to do this when tourists and foreigners come to your city, your country.
If they're not
doing something wrong or breaking the law or just being bad.
And I think that we should try to make them feel welcome.
We should treat them well and we should want to leave them with a good impression of our country and our city.
I've been to some cities where I left with a really bad impression.
One of these cities was New York City.
only been there once and it was for just two days but I got a really bad impression of the city because there were a few instances in which I or someone right around me was treated really badly by a person like a worker or someone living there and
I had never experienced that before in any other city in the U.S.
So I was left with a very bad impression of New York City because of how the locals treated me.
And so I don't want foreigners to come to my country or my city and leave with a bad impression and say, the people were awful there.
They were really mean.
and they weren't friendly or whatever.
I don't want to leave that impression.
I hope that if people come to where I live, that they leave thinking that it's a great place.
That's what I wish, that's what I hope for.
So that means that I want to treat people well when they're not from here.
And I'm an English teacher.
So.
For me, this might come more naturally than it does for other people.
But I think that regardless whether or not you have a lot of experience talking to foreigners, I think it's a cool experience to talk to them and make them feel welcome and just engage with them.
I love doing this and when I have the opportunity
to do so.
I always choose to talk to the foreigner who's had some vent or whatever.
I think that's cool.
And I remember one specific situation with my sister in which she befriended this Brazilian girl who was living in the US and my sister just made friends with her right away.
and invited her to do things and to go to family events.
And this Brazilian girl probably left with a really good impression of the US or of Americans in general because of my sister.
And so that's kind of an example that I'd like to follow.
I want to try to treat people who come here.
to my country the way that I want to be treated when I go visit some other country.
So that's another group of people who it's good to practice the golden rule.
So I think that's it for today.
I'm sure you can think of other situations in which it's important to follow the golden rule.
But hopefully this inspires you to treat others the way you want to be treated.
English speakers from around the country so you can learn about the U.S. practicing listening, learning a lot of new words and phrases.
So both of those links are down below and of course you have the transcript for this episode down below as well.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
them to treat you, right?
And as always remember that you can sign up for my advanced podcast episodes to start practicing with real English spoken fast.
The link is down below and you can also sign up for my US Conversations podcast so you can start practicing with two people talking and not just one.
That's an essential step that you'll eventually need to take in your English learning journey.
You need to be able.
Alright, let's talk about the Golden Rule and how we can practice it in different areas of our lives.
So, first, I want to talk about neighbors.
So, this is the first category of people that came to mind when I thought of this topic, because I've had a lot of inconsiderate neighbors throughout the years.
When we say inconsiderate, we're saying that someone doesn't consider other people's feelings.
They don't think about other people.
They're just thinking about themselves.
So I've had plenty of inconsiderate neighbors throughout the years.
And so that's one of the reasons why this group of people came to mind.
And when thinking about the gold rule of neighbors, it can be hard because for many people, if they're in their house or they're a part, they feel like they can do whatever they want because they're in their house, it's their property, or they're renting that apartment, so they can do whatever they want in their own property.
And...
That's true to an extent.
However, it's good to also consider how your actions might be affecting your neighbors.
So what are some examples of this?
Well, if someone is playing their music really loud in their apartment and they share a wall with someone else, that's probably gonna annoy
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 153 of The Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all ready and motivated to practice your English again with this new episode.
The birds are chirping outside my window here, as always.
I hope you like that.
background noise and it puts me in a good mood and I'm ready for this episode.
So today we're gonna talk about some different things that I learned from teaching.
So I use the past tense here I learned because I'm not really teaching anymore.
I'm pretty much done with this.
big world.
I've had students from over 80 different countries, over 80.
So I've talked to people from all over the world, from many different language backgrounds, different cultures.
And so I've had the opportunity to learn a lot.
I've learned a ton about different cultures.
general, I've learned a ton about the history of different countries and I think one of the coolest things, this is something that I really like, I've learned a lot about geography in general.
So you might remember from the episode about stereotypes, I think that was a normal episode, right?
It might have been a bonus one.
I don't know.
I've made so much content now that I can't really remember which topics I did during normal episodes and which ones were bonus episodes or advanced episodes or YouTube videos sometimes.
But I think I did an episode about stereotypes, right?
Well, I did some type of content about this and when I talked about stereotypes...
One stereotype that I mentioned about the US is that people in the US tend to not really know that much about the rest of the world, especially things related to geography.
So many people in the US have no idea where different countries are.
They have no idea which cities are in which countries and
where they are on the map, which continent they're a part of.
So people in the US are known for not really knowing anything about the geography outside the US.
So I'm definitely an exception to this rule.
I know a pretty good amount of geography thanks to...
to my work as a teacher and thanks to the fact that I think geography is really interesting.
I'm fascinated by this topic in the past, even now still, I sometimes just open up a map online and just kind of explore the world through this map.
I've always liked that, so this is...
one of the cool things I've gotten to learn more about as a teacher, I've gotten to learn a lot more about the different geography and things like that regarding different countries around the world.
So in summary, one of the lessons I learned from teaching is that the world is really big and we can spend our whole lives learning about it.
So that's a cool lesson.
The next lesson I've learned from teaching is that people from around the world have specific difficulties with English based on their particular language.
And this is kind of an obvious one.
This one makes sense.
However, you really see this as an English teacher because, for example,
when I would have a new student, it was their first class with me, just based on the country that they were from, I already knew what mistakes they would make.
I could already predict the errors they would make.
Sometimes they would start the sentence slowly and I could already predict an error that they would make.
later on in the sentence and then they would make it.
That's because based on your language there are certain things about English that are especially difficult because those things don't exist in your language for example.
So this is something related to the differences between languages and
Maybe in the future I might teach again.
That's definitely possible, but for now I'm done.
So I thought it would be good to reflect on my experience as a teacher, specifically teaching people from around the world who are learning English.
So I have time.
It's a really interesting thing for me as a teacher.
I like to see the different difficulties that people have with English based on their language.
But of course this is not something that students like.
They don't like that.
They have these same errors that everyone else from their country also have.
and these errors tend to be the hardest ones to correct.
The ones that are based on kind of your language background, the ones that everyone else in your country makes, these tend to be the errors that are the hardest to correct.
They stay the longest, right?
And also when it comes to people's accent.
Obviously, this depends on your language and where you're from.
And unfortunately, some accents are harder to understand than others.
And so people from certain countries with certain language backgrounds are going to have a harder time being understood by native English.
than people from other countries.
It's not all the same.
It's not like everyone is equally as unintelligible as everyone else.
The word unintelligible means you can't understand it.
So it's not like everyone's accent is equally as understandable or unintelligible.
It is really different actually based on what language the person speaks.
So this is unfortunate because some people have a natural advantage because even though they have an accent, their accent is easier for us to understand whereas other people's accents are harder for us to understand.
So as a teacher this is something.
thing we need to be aware of.
And it's just kind of one of the difficult things when it comes to language differences, sound differences, those types of things.
So that's another lesson I learned that everyone has their specific difficulty with English based on their own language.
And another thing I learned from teaching.
is that despite these differences that I just mentioned, everyone feels the same overall difficulty when it comes to language learning, specifically when it comes to learning English.
So everyone has their specific difficulties based on their background, but the overall challenge I would say is getting enough experience.
and practice to be able to understand well and speak well.
Really, that's what it all boils down to.
In English, when we say all boils down to something, we're saying that this really is the key thing.
It really all boils down to getting enough exposure to the language and...
practicing enough to eventually speak and understand well.
Okay, regardless of your individual difficulties, regardless of your background and the things that you struggle with, this is the overall challenge and this is not a problem.
This is how language learning.
works.
You need to get tons and tons of exposure and practice with the language and you will improve over time.
However, as a language teacher, I have heard this same complaint hundreds of times.
Students will say, I have a problem with English.
This is my problem.
for more or less ten years, but more specifically I taught for a little more than seven years, one-on-one with people learning English from around the world.
So I've done thousands and thousands of hours of classes with different people from all over the world.
And obviously...
with learning English.
And students tend to think that it's just them.
They're the only ones with this difficulty.
And that's not true.
Everyone has this difficulty.
And people really just don't understand how long it takes, how many hours it takes to get good at a language.
And because...
they feel like they're not progressing, they look for solutions in the wrong places.
They come to my class and say, I need to start over again and learn all the grammar from scratch.
Let's start with the verb to be and learn all the grammar together.
That's their solution to what they view as a problem.
with English, but that's the wrong solution.
The solution is to increase their listening hours and their hours spent reading and their hours spent speaking.
That's the solution.
The solution is not to start over and try some new system and learn all the grammar.
No, that's not the solution, okay?
So, what I want you to take away from this lesson is that you don't have a problem with English.
Your problem, as you see it, is simply the challenge of learning a language.
And you don't need to find some creative solution.
And you don't need to start over, learn all the grammar.
No, you need to...
keep on reading and listening and speaking and find more motivation, find more interesting content to consume and have patience.
That's the solution.
Okay?
So that's another lesson I learned that almost everyone feels this same difficulty and they tend to think that it's...
their specific problem.
No.
Everyone has this quote unquote problem.
It's not a problem.
This is how language learning works.
Okay.
So just accept that it takes many hours, thousands of hours, and tons of input and output listening and reading and speaking and writing.
So that's another lesson.
And another lesson I learned is that students who know less grammar, but listen more and read more, are easier to talk to than students who know more grammar, but spend less time listening reading.
I've mentioned this before, so I won't spend too much time on this topic, but it's a really...
important lesson.
I've noticed this throughout the years that all of my most accomplished and advanced students who speak really well understand really well.
These are almost always the people that don't know any grammar.
Like they don't know what a preposition is, they don't know what a conjunction is, they don't know almost.
grammar in the sense that they can't explain the rules to you, but they know the grammar intuitively in their mind.
They don't know how to explain it, but they know how to say a certain sentence correctly.
And on the other hand, I've had students that know a lot of grammar, but this doesn't really help them speak and understand.
and added advanced level.
So that's something I have seen over and over again.
That people that don't stress about knowing everything, these people tend to focus on what's important, which is listening, reading, speaking.
Okay.
These are the students that accomplish more and...
I've learned some lessons during my time teaching.
So I'm sure this will be an interesting topic and that you'll like it.
And before we start, remember that if you want my training to help you understand people when they speak fast, make sure to join my membership so you can get my listening practice seminars where I help you practice with all the different sound patterns.
progress faster because they spend more time doing the necessary things and less time worrying about knowing the rules and when I speak to them they sound natural but when I speak to people they try to apply their grammar knowledge to their speaking they tend to speak less fluently
more robotically and it's not as easy to talk to them.
So I'm not saying that you shouldn't ever focus on grammar, you shouldn't know grammar.
I love grammar.
I'm a grammar nerd.
However, that's not what makes me fluent in other languages.
In my experience, it's more rewarding to learn grammar explicitly.
once you already Intuitively know it so you already know the correct sentence and then you kind of Look at it and you're able to deconstruct it and see the grammar and how it works that's better in my opinion than trying to do the opposite and Focus on the grammar before you can even say the sentence
correctly.
Right?
So that's just my opinion, but from my experience with students, I can see that people that don't focus on grammar tend to reach higher levels than people that are really stressed about this.
Okay?
So that's another lesson.
And the fifth lesson that I wanted to mention.
is that most people, I would say, maybe the vast majority of people, I don't know, but most people are not great conversationalists.
Most people are not really good at managing conversations.
And that's okay.
I'm not trying to criticize here.
It's just something I've noticed over the years.
that the vast majority of people are not experts at managing conversations, making the other person feel really comfortable at ease in the conversation.
The phrase at ease means that you're not stressed, you're relaxed.
So when I talk to different people throughout the world, even when...
I talk to teachers because I've taken many classes as a student and even in those sessions I have to control the conversation usually because even these other language teachers aren't very good at managing conversations and making it feel really easy and comfortable.
The reason I wanted to mention this is that you can really stand out if you practice this skill.
The phrasal verb stand out means that people notice you right here exceptional.
So if you can practice your conversational skills and practice managing these situations and making the other person feel like the conversation.
is going really smoothly, it's easy.
If you can do that, you will definitely stand out and I think you will have more success in life.
I notice this every time I talk to a student or a teacher who has this ability, it's really noticeable to me.
And it feels really different from when...
I'm just talking to the average person.
And when I talk to people that have these skills, I feel at ease.
It feels fun to talk.
I feel more motivated to exchange with this person.
Everything feels better.
When someone feels this, like how I feel in these situations.
that are difficult to understand in English.
So the link is down below.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you feel ready to start with my other podcast in which I talk to different English teachers from around the US, and we talked about a lot of topics and specifically get to learn about.
It really makes me like the other person.
It makes me have a good image of the other person.
So if you can practice your conversational skills, you're going to succeed more in your job, your relationships, your life in general.
People really appreciate it when you are good at conversations and to make it
for them to talk to you.
So I wanted to mention that because that's a big thing I've noticed.
So work on your conversational skills and your people skills and you'll see the benefits for sure.
And one other lesson I learned for my time teaching is that languages can't be taught they can only be learned.
I heard someone say this recently.
And I loved this expression.
I think it's really true.
The learner is the one who is responsible for their improvement, for their ability to learn a language.
It's not the teacher.
OK. What does the teacher do?
The teacher can provide motivation.
That's what they should do.
They can provide feedback, for example.
can give you corrections, they can tell you what you're doing right, long, etc.
They can provide you with helpful content, right?
And probably most importantly, they are a good source of conversation in a very comfortable environment where you can practice your speaking.
and you're listening because the teacher talks to you and you try to understand them and you talk to them.
You don't need to worry about making mistakes and they help you out and give you feedback.
It's a great environment in which to practice your speaking and listening.
So that's what a teacher can do for you.
the teacher does not give you the knowledge to speak or to understand a language.
That's simply not true.
Okay, I've been doing this long enough.
I can tell you with certainty that a teacher does not give you the knowledge of the language.
You have to learn it.
You have to acquire it and you can use teachers for...
what they're supposed to be used for in the language learning world.
Like I said, motivation, feedback, content, most importantly, good conversation practice.
Okay, use a teacher for those things, but don't expect a teacher to teach you and give you language skills.
That will make you fluent.
That doesn't happen.
Okay, so you are responsible.
for your improvement, you are the only person that can determine whether or not you become good at English or any other language.
Okay?
So those were the lessons I wanted to talk about today, things that I learned from teaching.
I hope you enjoyed hearing about these different things and remember that if you want my help.
to understand native speakers better when they speak fast.
Make sure to sign up for my membership to get my listening practice seminars.
The link is down below.
And if you want my US Conversations podcast, I'll leave that link down below as well.
That's great practice for those of you who are ready to train.
You're listening with two people talking and not just one.
different parts of the country here.
If you're interested in that then you can sign up for my US Conversations podcast.
The link is also down below.
That's patreon.com slash US Conversations.
All right let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
All right.
Let's talk about some different things that I learned from teaching, my time as a teacher.
So I wrote down six things here, but obviously there are many more.
But I want to focus on these six lessons that I learned.
The first one is that the world is really big and there's so much to learn about it.
We are to
Here the expression, it's a small world because people often talk about how the world is a lot smaller than we think it is.
People have more similarities than we think they do.
Of course, all of that is true when you look at it from a certain angle.
But I kind of see it from another...
angle because I've been an English teacher all these years and I've talked to people from all around the world and to me it seems more like the world is a really big place and there's so much that we can learn about the world.
There are so many different places so just to give you an idea of my experience interacting with this.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 140 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great today.
I hope that your brain is in English mode and that you're ready to practice your listening.
And in today's episode, we're going to talk about a really interesting and relevant
topic for all of you.
I think you'll all appreciate this one.
We're going to talk about why it seems so hard to go from an intermediate to an advanced level in English or in any other language, of course.
But since you're learning English, I'm using that language as an example.
So we'll talk about why the process
a lot of you have felt this before and you might wonder why.
Well, the main reason why in my opinion is because of the frequency of the words that you're seeing, that you're hearing or reading.
So the 100 most common words in English, they come up, they appear much, much more.
frequently than the next 100 words or the next 1000 words or whatever.
So why is that important?
So the words that are the most common in a language like English are very, very common.
You can't construct many sentences without these words.
words.
So they show up over and over and over again and all types of sentences.
It doesn't matter what the subject is, who's talking, where the person is from these words are going to show up time and time again from the first day that you start learning English.
So when you first start, you're going to see these common words.
again and again and you're going to learn them pretty quickly because they're repeated just over and over again and that helps you to learn them fast.
They become essential words for you.
So for example the word z in English that's an extremely common word, the most common words.
and can't really say much at all without that word.
That word is everywhere.
So you probably learned the word the very quickly without even trying.
What's another example?
Maybe the word and or the word because these are function words that are so incredible.
necessarily to the language that they show up in many, many sentences.
So you're going to learn them no matter what.
In English, when we say the phrase no matter what, we're saying with no exceptions.
It's definitely going to happen.
So you're going to learn words like, and the...
and because no matter what, you can't get very far without those words.
So this is great because when we first start learning a language, these words show up time and time again, and you learn them really quickly, and you quickly go from zero words to 100 words, or whatever, because you've seen those words.
words so many times.
You've gotten so much repetition with those words.
So that means that you can go from zero to a high beginner or low intermediate level relatively quickly because you're going to establish the basics of English pretty quickly as long as you practice as long as you dedicate.
time and energy to this.
And you're going to establish these basics with the foundation of these common words, right?
If you have those 100 common words or 200 most common words in English, you're going to have some foundation to build upon.
And that's great.
However, once you reach that high beginner level.
or that low intermediate level, probably, what's going to happen is that you already have those common words.
They're already in your brain.
And now you don't have many other really common words that are new for you.
So the words that are new now are words that are
seem so difficult to go from an intermediate English learner speaker to an advanced English speaker.
So why is that?
We're going to talk about that today and I'll offer some suggestions about how to help you out with that process.
These tips aren't going to solve all of your problems instantly.
less common, much less common.
So they aren't going to show up very often.
You're not going to get a lot of repetition and exposure to those words.
So for example, let's take the word frame.
This is that thing where you put a picture so that you can hang it on the wall or put it
on your desk, it's that square or rectangular thing around a picture.
That's the frame.
So that's something that a lot of us, or most of us, have in our houses, it's a pretty common object if you think about it, right?
A picture frame.
That's something you see everywhere.
However, do you really hear that word?
everyday.
Absolutely not.
Do you even hear that word once a week or even once a month?
Probably not unless you're someone who works with pictures and frames.
You probably don't even hear that word more than once a month.
So it's going to be a lot harder for you to remember the word frame than it will be.
to remember the word because, and that's because of the frequency of these words.
So once you're at this intermediate level, and you have the basics, everything that is new or that isn't very familiar to you is going to show up and then go away and you don't know when you're going to see it again.
Unfortunately.
So, you see a word and then you try to memorize that word, okay, frame.
And then you don't see that word again for two months.
And then by that time, you've already forgotten what it means.
And then it shows up again and you think, hmm, that word looks familiar.
I don't remember what it means.
And then you have to look it up again.
What's happens to me?
all the time.
It happens to me constantly and it's very, very frustrating because many times you even recognize the word and say, hey, I remember learning this word, I remember looking up the meaning, but I still don't remember what it means.
And because of that, you have to look it up again and you're probably going to forget it again.
And so this is just a reality.
Once you reach an inner real level, you're not going to see all of these new words very frequently.
So it's going to feel like you're making much less progress.
You're not learning as much as you did when you first started.
You're not going to understand a lot of things because a lot of words.
will be said that you don't know well yet.
Maybe you've heard them before, but you haven't heard them repeated hundreds or thousands of times like you have with the words and four and because, etc.
So progress is going to seem very slow.
And you're going to be improving as long as you keep on.
practicing because of course you're still solidifying the basics to solidify something means that you establish it with more strength.
You'll still be solidifying the basics and you'll still be getting that exposure to new words and phrases but it will be very slow.
You won't get as much
repetition, so it will take you a lot longer to learn these other words.
And it won't seem like you're improving.
You are, like I mentioned, but it seems much, much slower.
And so that's not very fun, obviously, but that's kind of the reality of languages.
And I've even seen statistic, I can't hear it.
of course, but I think that they can help.
So we'll talk about that today and before we start, remember that if you want to practice with my advanced episodes in which I speak fast, make sure to become a listening time family member.
The link is in the description below this episode.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you want my new podcast, my US Conversations podcast in which
if it's true or not, but I think if it's not true, it's probably pretty close to the truth.
And that is that the 100 most frequent words in English make up 50% of all of what you will read in English.
When I use the phrasal verb make up in this context, I'm saying that they comprise, right?
comprise 50% of all written English.
So imagine that the 100 most frequent words in English will be about 50% of everything that you see when you read, maybe even when you hear people speak English.
So that means that all the other thousands and thousands of words in English are only that other 50%.
So, you can see how infrequent those other words are going to be when you're learning English.
So, that statistic just shows the reality of a word frequency.
Why that makes it so hard once you've reached an intermediate level.
But what can you do to not solve this but to help you out?
with this process.
If you're already at a lower intermediate level and you feel like progress is slow, what can you do?
Well, I thought of four things that you can do.
The first one is the one that's not the most interesting or fun and that is simply to dedicate more time to your language learning.
primarily
listening and reading and having conversations.
So I thought of this because I have a student who might be listening to this episode.
I don't know.
But this student spends four hours a day listening to English.
That's a lot.
He spends three hours actively listening and another hour passively listening.
He uses multi-times.
asking and doing something else.
So the simple fact that he is listening so much gives him enough repetition to hear the less frequent words more often because most of us, most of us language learners, do not spend over hours listening.
We might spend one hour listening and some of us might only spend.
30 minutes listening or maybe this podcast is your only listening today and this is what 25 30 minutes maybe 25 minutes so if you compare that to four hours That's a big difference so the repetition of less frequent words Won't be very high if you're all
leave the sinning for 30 minutes a day.
But if you're listening for four hours a day, those words that are new, the less common words, will actually show up or often, and that will give you a chance to learn them faster.
So it's pretty simple, obviously, and most of us probably aren't going to find three or four hours.
just to dedicate to listening.
So that might not be the easiest thing for most of us, but I wanted to mention it because my student does this and it works great for him.
He's improved a ton even at the intermediate level.
So another way, another thing that can help you with this process is to use spaced repetition.
So, there are many tools available online and a lot of them are free that are designed to help you study words or whatever, phrases, sentences or things from other subjects, not just language learning.
They help you practice memorizing these things and then they...
I talk to people from all over the US about different topics and provide the transcript and the definitions of C words and phrases that we use.
Then make sure to sign up for that.
The link is also in the description below this episode.
That's patreon.com slash us conversations.
And as always, please share this podcast with your friends and family members.
And please give it a five.
will show you a certain word when you're probably about to forget it.
So these spaced repetition apps and websites are designed to help you get really good repetition of new words and you can put in your new words or new phrases and they will show these flash cards to you.
and you can practice with them and they will show you the same word at the optimal time, the perfect time for you're going to forget it or right when you're forgetting that word.
And this is a very scientific approach based on how we forget things.
So apps and websites like Inky.
A-N-K-I, this is a fantastic tool that you can use to help you out with that.
Of course, it's going to require some effort.
You have to input words that you want to remember, that you want to learn.
You're going to have to take some time to do that and to study these words.
But it's a way that you can get more repetition of new words that you want to learn.
So that's another thing you can do.
And the third thing you can do is to use normal repetition methods, like what I always propose that you do with this podcast or any other content that you consume, that you listen multiple times to the same episode or the same content.
So you can listen to this episode three times.
or four times, or five times.
And when you do that, you're gonna get a lot of repetition of words and phrases that you're unfamiliar with, or that you're not quite comfortable with.
So if you listen to this episode five times, then one of the new words that I used here is gonna replay five times.
times into your ears and that's much more powerful than if you only hear it one time.
So that's pretty obvious, right?
So that's something pretty easy that you can do and I have one other tip that I think will really help you.
It's something that I incorporate into my language learning and that is
that I spend periods of time listening to content about the same subject.
So for example, I might spend a full month listening to content specifically about let's say online business, right?
And I listen to multiple podcasts and watching multiple
different YouTube channels that are all about the same subject.
And because they're all about the same subject, I hear them use very similar terminology and phrases and things like that.
These words and phrases show up again and again and again because they're very useful phrases and words for this
topic.
And then maybe the next month, I might spend more time listening to content about personal development.
And then a lot of the same words and phrases show up if I keep listening to content about that topic.
And so you can kind of cycle through different topics like this and consume a lot of content about these topics.
and that will help you get more repetition with certain words in certain phrases.
And then you move on to another topic.
I really like doing this and I also like doing this with the same person, the same YouTuber or podcaster because people tend to use the same words.
We all have our own...
start reading on Spotify or Apple podcasts and writer of you.
All right, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
OK, so let's talk about why it's so hard once you reach an intermediate level in English or any other language.
So I'm going to talk about the main reason.
speaking style.
So we repeat the same words and phrases over and over again.
And so I might spend a month really focusing on one podcast.
For example, and off here this podcaster say the same things time and time again, and it really helps me get that repetition for certain words and phrases that that person says.
and then I'll switch to another podcaster or YouTuber and they say different words and phrases that I'm not familiar with and then I get a lot of repetition with those ones.
So you see how that can work, right?
That's something that I've found to be very useful for me.
So those are four things that I was able to think of.
There are more.
And I'm sure I'll do many more episodes in the future about language learning and different tips and things like that But I just wanted to share those ones today I hope this episode was interesting for you and I hope it encourages you to keep on practicing even if the progress sees slow and And one way you can practice is by using my advanced pod
cast episodes.
So if you're interested in that, make sure to click on the link in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And another way you can practice is with my conversations that I have with other native speakers.
So if you're interested in that, sign up for my US Conversations podcast.
The link is also down below.
That's patreon.com slash US.com.
in my opinion.
There are multiple reasons, of course, but I want to focus on the really big one.
The one that really makes a difference in the process when you're a beginner or an intermediate learner.
So I'm sure you've felt this before.
If you're already at an intermediate level, you've probably...
probably felt the difference between when you first started learning English, maybe not at the very beginning because you probably learned in high school, in those terrible classes.
So just ignore that, but maybe as an adult or whatever, when you started learning more seriously, it might have seemed like...
you were improving relatively quickly when you started dedicating time to learning English, but once you reach an intermediate level, this progress seems to slow down a lot.
And right now, I'm learning Italian, as I mentioned in the last episode, and I started from scratch.
From zero and it seems like I'm learning a ton of things Right now, but I know that once I reach an intermediate level in Italian I will also feel this progress slow down a lot.
It's gonna happen to me So I'm just enjoying the beginning stages Wanted to really fun and I feel like I'm learning a lot So I'm sure
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 123 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great.
At the time of recording this, it's the very end of summer here in the Northern Hemisphere.
And so autumn is just around the corner in English with...
When we say that something is just around the corner, we're saying that it's about to appear or it's about to happen.
It's going to happen very soon.
So fall is just around the corner and a lot of people are really happy about this because a lot of people here like this season.
They like autumn.
They like to see the cup.
probably seen this in movies or TV shows before, where the kids build some type of house in their backyard, maybe in a big tree.
And this is something that is a pretty classic tradition here in the US.
People like tree houses.
This is a fun thing for kids.
However, I build...
a tree house that was a little bit different from what you're probably imagining.
We didn't build a house that was a closed box like you see in the movies usually.
We built a tree house where we just had these different platforms on different branches of the tree.
platform is just a black space and in this case the space where you can stand on.
So my friend and I, we built this tree house that had many different platforms at different levels and on different branches and we would have to climb to the different platforms using
these steps that we also built, we used wood and nailed the wood into the tree to build steps that we could step on.
By the way, when we say that you nail something, we're saying that you use a nail, this sharp little tool, and you use that and you hit it.
into the object, you nail it.
So we nailed these wooden steps into the tree trunk so that we could climb the tree to get to the different platforms.
I know that this might be a little difficult to visualize, but that's probably the best way that I can describe it.
And building this tree house was really fun.
I think we have...
more fun building the tree house than we did playing in the tree house.
So it was really fun to construct this and we were pretty young when we built this.
I think I was like 10 years old maybe.
So we were young.
It was probably a little dangerous, but we did it in a little bit.
And this was the first time.
that I really used a hammer and nails on my own.
So I learned how to hammer things when I built this tree house.
And it was a great place to play and to use our imagination to create gains and things like that in this tree house.
And in general, I always really liked climbing trees as a kid that would...
always something that I enjoyed and so this was a perfect project for me because I got the chance to climb this tree and also build something, use my imagination, play, etc.
So that was one of my favorite activities as a kid.
Another childhood activity that I wanted to mention is that I actually collected books.
bugs for a time.
The word bug just means insect.
Right?
So I actually collected bugs during a brief time in my life.
Now when I look back on this, it seems kind of gross to me.
The word gross just means disgusting.
So it seems kind of gross when I think back to all the bugs.
that I collected.
I remember that in particular I collected caterpillars, you know, these things that turn into butterflies.
Right?
So I collected caterpillars and I remember putting them in a container and I tried to create a good environment for them.
In this container I put leaves and sticks.
changing.
They like the seasonal food.
There are a lot of different types of food that people start to eat during autumn that they don't eat during the spring or summer.
And so a lot of people like this season.
One fun thing about this season is that there are a lot of activities for children.
For example, pumpkin patches,
things like that inside and I fed them fruit.
I remember feeding them canalope.
Actually if you don't know what a canalope is this is that type of melon that's orange on the inside that's canalope.
So I remember feeding them canalope and cleaning the container and I don't.
Oh, why I was so interested in them.
But for some reason, I like to collect them and watch them interact with each other in this container.
And I also remember collecting some beetles.
I remember doing that.
I don't remember all of the other specific bugs that I collected, but I just remember that I liked to watch them interact with each other.
would combine some different bugs together and watch what they did to see if they would get along or if they would fight or whatever.
By the way, the phrasal verb get along means that you are in harmony with another person or another animal.
So it means that you don't fight with each other.
you get along.
So I think that I liked to experiment a little bit and see these bugs would get along with each other.
So that's another activity that I did as a kid.
And another one was making paper airplanes.
So I loved making paper airplanes as a kid, especially because I loved.
trying to find the different combinations of folds that would result in the best airplane.
I don't know if you have much experience making paper airplanes, but of course it really matters how you fold the paper.
So if you fold the paper in certain ways and you follow a certain
you can make a pretty impressive airplane, actually.
Some airplanes that we made actually stayed in the air for quite a while.
And I remember that we had one design in particular that was the best one.
So my neighbor and I found this perfect design that we would recreate.
time and time again and create these airplanes and try to make them fly as high and as long as possible.
And so it was a very intricate design.
The word intricate means that something is very detailed.
And so this was an intricate design.
I still remember how to make this paper airplane.
even now as an adult.
That's how many times I made it.
I made it so many times that I still have that muscle memory.
I still remember exactly how to make this airplane.
So we found that perfect design and we always try to improve it or find an even better design.
So we found some other
combinations of folds that worked pretty well, but we never ended up beating that one really good design that we found.
But it was really fun to do that and to experiment with different types of designs.
I really like that.
I like experimenting with different options and trying to create different designs.
with things like that.
That's something that I enjoy and I really enjoyed it as a kid.
So that was another good activity that I had.
And another one was something that we called cardboarding.
So we would slide down this big hill on pieces of cardboard.
Cardboard is that...
places where they sell pumpkins, but they also have a lot of activities for kids and me and my family.
We're planning on going to a couple pumpkin patches this season and I think that I'll do an episode on pumpkin patches.
So you'll get to hear about that hopefully and I was thinking about this topic of fun activity.
material that is used to package items to transport them or ship them to another place.
By the way when you say shipping, when we say that in item ships we're saying that it is sent from one place to another.
So cardboard is that material that's used to ship items to package them and ship them.
So we...
would cut big pieces of cardboard from these different boxes and we would sit on them and then slide down this big hill that was behind my house.
So this was something that my friend came up with.
By the way, when you say that you come up with something, we're saying that you...
you think of an idea.
So this is something that he came up with and I joined in and we had a lot of fun doing this.
It didn't always work really well because sometimes the grass grew in a way that didn't allow us to slide very well.
So we had to work around that and do our best.
to be able to make it to the bottom of the hill on this cardboard.
But it was actually a little bit dangerous because we weren't able to stop very well.
You don't really have a brake system with this type of cardboard obviously.
So if we made it to the bottom of the hill on the cardboard,
times we wouldn't be able to stop well and we would kind of fall off of it and maybe it would hurt a little bit or we might run into something and we would crash right so it was a little bit dangerous and I think there were a few times when I got hurt but nothing serious just
minor things, but that was an activity that was a fun one in the sense that we created it and it wasn't something that other people really did We didn't learn about it from anyone else my friend Just created it he had this idea and We just did it and we were the only ones that we knew
who did this type of activity.
So that was pretty cool.
It was born out of kids imagination, right?
It was just something that we decided to do because it sounded fun and we had the material and we made it work.
We did it until we found the perfect way to do it and then we had fun with it.
I really
really like when kids come up with interesting gains and activities like that.
I think that's really cool.
And speaking of that, the last activity that I want to talk about is playing make believe.
In English, when you say that you make believe or you play make believe, we're saying that you create situations and you.
games from your imagination, things that aren't real, but you imagine them and then you play this game or you do this activity.
So I played and make believe a lot when I was around the age of six or seven around that page.
I remember playing with my old neighbor in my old
house, my first house, and I remember inventing different games together where we would have to make believe.
We had to pretend and imagine these different situations.
By the way, in this context, the word pretend means that you imagine something that isn't real, but you act like it's real.
activities for children because I was thinking about pumpkin patches and about different things like that.
And I decided that I wanted to do an episode about some of my favorite activities that I did when I was a kid.
So my childhood activities, specifically things that I did outdoors, things that I did outside.
And I decided that I wanted to do an episode about some of my favorite activities that I did outside.
Okay, so for example, if I pretend that I'm a superhero, this means that I'm acting and imagining that I'm a superhero, even though it's not real, right?
So I remember pretending and coming up with all of these different scenarios with my neighbor and we just went through these whole story line.
and pretended that we were different characters doing different things and it was tons of fun.
I remember that our favorite thing to pretend was that we were on a big boat.
We called it the boat game and we pretended that we were these sailors on this big boat and we were navigating the open seas.
and we encountered all of these different complications and problems.
I don't know where we got that idea from.
I have no idea how we started that, but I just remember that we loved playing this boat game using our imagination.
So I really like that type of activity that make believe type of activity because I think
It's really good for kids.
It helps kids use their imagination and not just rely on being given the stimulation from a screen or from something else.
Kids have to think of things on their own and create things from nothing.
I really like that and I think it's also beneficial in the sense.
that it helps kids become more social, right?
You have to work with your friends, and you have to agree with each other and get along with each other while you're imagining these situations and playing in this context.
And I think it also helps kids become a little more independent and...
It helps them begin to play on their own and not just need their parents to play with them, for example.
So I think that there are a lot of good benefits for kids to play make-believe.
I really like that and I'm interested to see when my son will start to play make-believe and create scenarios like that.
that are imaginary.
I'm looking forward to that stage in his life.
I think that will be fun.
All right, why don't I stop there?
I hope this episode was interesting for you.
Remember that you can sign up for my new podcast, US Conversations.
It's an exclusive podcast, so you need to sign up and you'll get one new conversation every month where I talk to a different person from different.
part of the United States and you have the transcript available with the definitions of key words and phrases that we use.
So the link is in the description below this episode.
That's patreon.com slash US conversations.
And if you want help understanding native speakers, if you want my training, then make sure to sign up for my membership.
The link is also down below.
And if you
I thought it would be fun to look back and remember my childhood and some of my favorite things that I did outside.
So I hope that this will be an interesting episode for you today.
And before we start, I want to remind you that my new podcast is available now, US Conversations, where I talk to different English teachers from around.
the US.
And we talk about many things and have natural conversations at normal speed.
And you have the transcript available with the definitions of key words and phrases that we use.
So make sure to sign up for that if you're interested.
The link is in the episode description below this episode.
That's patreon.com slash you.
US conversations.
And if you want my specialized training to help you understand native speakers when they speak fast, then make sure to join my membership.
The link is also in the description below this episode.
So click on that and join if you're interested in getting my specialized training.
And of course, if you're a Spanish or a Portuguese speaker, you can also check out my e-books.
you want to start reading fiction in English.
Those links are down below as well.
And if you like this podcast, please share it with anyone else you know who's learning English.
And please give it a five-star rating and write a review.
All right, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
All right, let's talk about some of my...
favorite childhood activities that I did.
Some of my favorite things that I did outdoors because I did some things indoors as well.
I had some fun activities that I did inside, but I want to focus on the outdoor activities today.
So the first one that I want to talk about is building a tree house.
So you've probably...
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 121 of the Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
I hope you're all doing great.
The topic of today's episode is a really interesting one and I think that most of you are going to like this one because it's something that most of us are here.
Maybe all of us are currently dealing with or are at least having to think about a little bit, which is inflation.
We are experiencing a lot of inflation in many countries around the world and a lot of places have had a lot of issues in terms of inflation economies.
So that's inflation and many of us are struggling right now with inflation in our different countries because over the past couple of years we've seen a lot of inflation around the world.
So let's talk about some causes of inflation.
There are different causes.
It's not just one.
particular thing.
There could be certain things that come from the demand side, meaning the consumer who is buying products, all of services, and there could be causes from the supply side, from the people that are producing these goods and services.
Maybe the cost of production has gone up for then.
and they can't produce a bunch of stuff or they need to raise prices because of problems with the supply side.
So there are a lot of different things that can affect and influence the inflation rate.
But let me just talk about maybe the overall idea of what causes inflation.
Of course, this isn't necessarily the most detailed explanation, but I think it kind of summarizes everything.
So inflation is caused by having more currency units that are chasing goods and services without a greater increase in production of those goods and services.
Okay, that...
might be a little hard for you to understand, let me explain it.
So a currency unit just refers to $1 or 1 euro or whatever, right?
currency refers to the different money that we use in different countries, right?
So the dollar is a currency, the euro is a currency, et cetera.
So when we have more...
dollars, for example, in circulation, but we don't have the same increase in the production of goods and services.
If there isn't an increase or if there's a decrease or if there's an increase, but not enough of an increase, this will result in higher prices.
It will result in inflation.
Think of a basic example right in the years 2020 and 2021 in many places for example in the United States the government gave out a lot of $3 to people a lot of people received stimulus checks and there were other forms of stimulus that
reduced more dollars more of these currency units.
However, this didn't increase the amount of goods and services that were created.
And so we had more dollars, but we didn't necessarily have more goods and services.
So people might have felt richer because suddenly they had more.
money in her bank account.
However, when you just increase the money supply, that simply means that prices will go up because now there is more money in the system that is chasing the same amount of goods and services.
So that makes the price of these things go up.
That's just logic.
So that's what happens.
when you suddenly increase the currency and there are more dollars or euros it makes prices go up right and you can increase the amount of currency in a system without a price inflation if the production of goods and services increases even more?
have been hurt and people have had a hard time because of inflation in this recent period.
And remember that I am recording this in 2023.
So if you're listening to this in a future year, then this might not be as relevant, but during this time that I'm recording.
that the increase in the currency.
So a good example of this was in the late 1800s in the US, when there was actually an increase in the overall currency, the amount of currency units in the system.
However, prices actually went down.
How did that happen?
Well, it's because there was so much...
production of goods and services and that production was even greater than the increase in the money supply.
So even though the money supply expanded, prices actually went down because more things were produced.
So you can see that there are a lot of factors at play in terms of the causes of inflation and how inflation happens.
Let's talk about the effects of inflation now.
So when there's inflation, when there's a lot of inflation, especially, people are not encouraged to save.
People are actually encouraged to spend and vest.
For example, let's pretend you have $10 and the rate of inflation is very high right now.
put your $10 in a bank account, a savings account, and it has a low interest rate and that $10 increases a little bit.
But the rate of inflation is 10%, maybe, and then maybe next year your $10 has grown to $10 and 5 cents in that savings account.
But the purchase...
increasing power has gone down for those $10.
Now, instead of needing $10 to buy a hamburger, it takes $11.
So even though you saved $10 and you earned a little bit of interest, the rate of inflation went up higher and you actually lost purchasing power.
You see how that works?
So people are...
not as encouraged to save because usually the rate of inflation kills their savings.
It makes their savings less valuable.
So instead of that, people are encouraged to spend money now because prices increase in the future if there is inflation.
So people want to buy things now before prices.
increase and people want to invest their money in something that will provide them a return that's greater than the rate of inflation.
So if inflation is 10% you want to earn at least 11% with your investments so that you can beat the rate of inflation and your purchasing power won't go down.
Right?
So in the
opposite scenario if there is deflation this has the opposite effect it encourages people to save money because their money will actually be worth more next year than it's worth now so you put your $10 in a savings account and maybe that grows to $10.5 next year or maybe it doesn't maybe it's just $10
However, that $10 buys more next year because prices have gone down and you've received an increase in your purchasing power.
So that's what happens when there's deflation and in many cases deflation might result in less investment because people don't need it.
to chase the best forms of investment to beat the rate of inflation because there is no inflation.
There is deflation, so people don't need to search for those investments.
They can just keep their money in a bank account and it grows in real value over time because prices are going down.
So you see how inflation and deflation
this episode.
Inflation is a hot topic and many people are talking about this and complaining about it and so I thought this would be a good topic to discuss in today's episode so we'll talk about what inflation is, the causes and facts of inflation.
We'll talk about some countries that have...
inflation, encourage the opposite behavior.
Right?
And when it comes to wages, the word wages just refers to the amount of money that you make, specifically the amount of money you make per hour.
So when it comes to wages and your income, this never keeps up with inflation if there's high inflation.
So...
if there's 10% inflation, your wages are probably not going to go up by the same amount at the same time.
So you might receive raises over time.
Your boss might raise your salary.
However, your overall purchasing power is not increasing because prices are increasing faster than your wages.
So even.
even though you might make more money in one year, your real wage is actually less.
When I say your real wage, I'm referring to your real wage adjusted for inflation.
So even though your income might increase, life continues to get harder and harder to afford.
The verb afford is used to say.
that you can pay for something.
So if I say I can't afford that car, I'm saying I don't have enough money to buy that car.
So life gets harder and harder to afford because your income doesn't increase as fast as inflation increases.
And another reason why life gets harder to afford is because...
interest rates often rise when we have high inflation and so for example it might be a lot more expensive to get a loan from the bank or to pay back money that you borrowed so things get harder to afford overall and so of course there are many negative facts of inflation
This is something that hurts people very badly in many cases.
So, what are some countries that have high inflation right now in 2023?
So, I'll mention a few of them here, but there are many other countries that also have pretty high inflation currently.
But here are a few of them.
Venezuela has...
around 400% inflation.
That's really, really high.
So imagine prices today being 400% what they were last year.
That's not a good situation, of course.
In the country of Lebanon, recently there was over 250% inflation, really, really high.
In Argentina, inflation has been a big problem in recent years, and the rate of inflation has reached to over 100%.
And inflation is also a big issue in Turkey right now.
It's close to 50% at the time of recording this.
So there are some countries right now that are dealing with major problems.
because of really high inflation and maybe you live in one of these countries and you know exactly what I'm talking about.
It's not a good situation to be in.
And how about the US?
Well, of course the US doesn't have inflation anywhere near some of these other countries.
However in June of 2022 it reached 9.1%.
which was the highest rate in many years in the US.
And to be honest, that 9.1% is understated.
When I say that it's understated, I'm saying that in reality it's more.
So when we see the official rate of inflation in the US, we know that in reality it's even higher than what they're saying.
very high inflation right now and what people do during times of high inflation.
So this should be a really interesting episode.
I'm excited for it.
And before we start, remember that I have my new podcast available now, which is called US Conversations.
This is an exclusive podcast.
You can sign up for it if you feel ready to...
it is, but that 9.1% was the highest in many years.
The rate of inflation is gone down this year.
However, at the time of recording this, we still have inflation.
So prices are still increasing, but by less, right?
Because we don't have deflation yet.
Prices aren't going down yet, but they're going up.
up at a slower pace than they were a year ago, for example.
But the US has dealt with a lot of inflation recently, and the percentage in the US might not seem very high to you, depending on where you live, but people definitely feel it here.
And lastly, what do people do during periods of high inflation or hyperinflation?
Well...
One thing is that people who live in a country with really high inflation, they tend to immediately exchange their money once they've earned it for another more stable currency or for precious metals.
When I use the phrase precious metals, I'm talking about things like gold and silver.
So for example, in Turkey right now, if people receive their income in the local currency, they might try to immediately exchange that for US dollars or for Euros or for gold, for example, so that they don't lose purchasing power so that their money doesn't deteriorate.
your rate by tomorrow or next week they want something more stable right so that's something that happens many places but in a place like the US it doesn't happen the same way because we have the US dollar and so the US dollar is generally considered to be the safe stable
currency that other people look to for refuge.
When I say the word refuge, I'm talking about protection and safety, right?
So we have this currency already.
So when we deal with inflation, we can't do the same thing with another currency the way that other countries do this because
that people in those countries might exchange their currency for dollars, but we already earned dollars.
And so most people in the US don't really have this option.
We don't think about exchanging our currency for another more stable one.
We can exchange our dollars for precious metals, of course.
Some people do that, but we don't really have the option.
of exchanging our dollars for a more stable currency because we have the currency that people usually view as the safe currency, right?
The safest and most stable one, right?
So that's a little bit different in the US.
And a lot of times during periods of really high inflation, the government in that country will be...
make it illegal to exchange over a certain amount of money for dollars or euros or whatever.
And if that's the case, then people create a black market for dollars or euros or whatever.
So people exchange this illegally because they need a more stable currency.
And if the government...
doesn't let them have one, then they'll get it illegally.
So that's another thing that happens.
Something else that happens is that people try to invest their money quickly in something that's going to give them a real return.
They don't want to just hold their currency.
They might exchange it for another currency or precious metals or invest it in something.
listen to conversations at real speed in English.
So in this new podcast I talked to different English teachers from around the United States in different parts of the country and we have a normal conversation about many different topics and I provide the transcript for you with the definitions of
that will gain value to a greater degree than the rate of inflation.
And so they might try to buy something, some asset, so that they can beat inflation.
By the way, the word asset in this context refers to something that you own, that can produce a positive
economic effect for you.
For example, like owning a property or owning a stock.
So people might try to find assets that will grow faster in value than the rate of inflation.
Right.
And another thing people might do is buy things now rather than later because they know that prices will increase in the future.
So they buy things now.
now.
And in really extreme examples of hyperinflation, people will just immediately buy things once they get paid in their local currency.
They might immediately buy milk or buy rice or buy something because they know that it's better to do that right now than wait a week when the price is higher.
Right?
And...
If they buy something real, now it will increase in value very very fast.
And one last thing that might happen is that people might leave their country unfortunately and look for a more stable situation.
So that's what might happen in times of very high inflation.
Alright, I think that's all for today.
Hopefully this topic was interesting for you.
hopefully it was educational and I know it's not the funnest topic but I think it's interesting because a lot of us are dealing with this now.
Remember that you can sign up for my new podcast if you want to hear real conversations in English with the transcript of course.
The link is in episode description below this episode and you can also join my
key words and phrases that we use during the conversation.
So I know that a lot of you have been waiting for this type of content from me, and now it's available.
So if you'd like that, you can click on the link in the episode description below this episode.
That's patreon.com slash us conversations.
And of course, you can sign up for my membership.
If you want my specialized training to help you understand native speakers when they speak fast, the link is also in the description below this episode.
And if you like this podcast, please share it with anyone else you know who's learned English, and please give it a 5-star rating and write a review.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what?
time it is, it's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about inflation.
First of all, what is inflation?
People might have different definitions of inflation and people think about this topic in different ways, but I'll just give an overall definition that most people would be happy with.
And that is inflation.
means that there is an increase in prices and a fall in purchasing power.
What does purchasing power mean?
This just means that your money buys less stuff.
You can't buy as much stuff with the same amount of money that you used to be able to buy.
So that's a fall in purchasing power.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 132 of the Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
I hope that your English learning is going great.
I hope that you feel motivated to continue on with your listening practice and keep on doing what you're doing.
And just...
trust that you're improving even if the process seems slow.
I want to encourage you to keep on going and thank you for listening and using this podcast as one of your tools to help you with your English.
Today I'm going to talk about a really interesting topic that I think is relevant to every single one of us.
The topic is introverts.
or maybe really shy around strangers and they can be shy in group settings.
So if there are a lot of people and you're all talking together, if you're an introvert, you might find it hard to speak up and be the center of attention and control the conversation.
So if there are a lot of people and you're all talking together, if you're a bit shy around strangers and they can be shy in group settings.
That might be hard for you if you're an introvert and you're in a group setting.
So if you're an introvert, you tend to be a little bit more quiet or reserved or shy, especially around people you don't know or in large groups.
However, if you're around people that you do know and people you feel comfortable with, then you're probably not.
not the same as if you were with a group of strangers, let's say.
You're probably going to seem a lot more social, less shy, less reserved around people that you do know.
So, in general, introverts can be quiet and reserved.
However, that's more around people and in situations.
that are unfamiliar to them, right?
If you're an introvert, that doesn't mean you're always quiet and reserved, right?
I want to differentiate that.
Another characteristic of introverts, and I think that this is the biggest one or one of the biggest ones, is that introverts tend to feel drained by social situations.
When we say that you're drinking.
by something.
This means that your energy is taken away.
It decreases, it is depleted, it is drained.
So, introverts tend to feel drained by social situations.
So, after a social situation, you might feel exhausted and you might feel like you...
need some alone time.
You want to just go home and be by yourself for a while.
That's a really common characteristic of a nautrovert.
So that's one of the biggest ones.
You tend not to feel super energized and recharged from social situations.
It's the opposite.
You feel like your drain
and you need some alone time afterwards.
That doesn't mean that you just don't like social situations.
That's not always the case, but you just feel exhausted from those situations.
And you actually get energized in solitude.
Solitude just refers to being alone.
So being alone actually.
energizes you.
If you're an introvert, you feel like you're regaining your energy.
You feel like your battery is being charged.
Again, that's another characteristic of introverts.
And another trait that introverts might have is that they tend to process a lot of thoughts in their head.
Rather
than say things out loud all the time.
By the way, the word trait just means characteristic or quality.
So introverts have this trait often where they think things through in their head.
They're very thoughtful.
They process a lot of thoughts in their mind.
They don't think out loud as we might say.
or they're just talking and saying what comes to their mind right away and they tend to be analytical in that way, but they think through things silently without necessarily talking.
So that's another trait.
The one other trait of introverts which can definitely be a weakness.
and extroverts.
You've probably heard these words before and I'll talk a little bit more in detail about these things in just a minute.
But the topic of introverts and extroverts is really interesting because it's related to us, our personality, how we interact with other people, how we feel about...
sometimes is that introverts often avoid confrontation.
Introverts often have a hard time confronting people when they need to.
I'm sure a lot of you can identify with this feeling that when you have to confront someone in maybe an uncomfortable situation, you dread this.
when someone dreads something, this means that they anticipate something with fear and negativity.
So, I'm sure some of you feel this dread when you have to confront someone and talk to them about something that's uncomfortable or something that isn't right or whatever.
It can be hard for you.
introverts to do this.
So that one can be a weakness because there are many times when we need to confront people.
And so that's going to cause some pain, some anxiety for introverts when those situations arise.
So that's another characteristic.
And how about extroverts?
Let's talk about extroverts now.
So, extroverts are generally described as being outgoing.
So when you're outgoing, this means that you're someone naturally talks and engages people and is able to produce conversation and talk to people and be social in...
in a natural way.
So, extroverts tend to be like this.
Extroverts usually enjoy social settings and they thrive in social settings.
When you thrive, we're saying that you do really well, you succeed or excel in some area.
So, extroverts thrive in social settings.
usually, and extroverts actually enjoy having this attention of being in a group, being around other people, and actually having the attention on them.
I'm sure if you're an introvert, that sounds crazy to you, right?
Because you probably don't like having the attention on you.
You don't like being this...
center of attention in a group of people.
However, extroverts often have no problem with this.
Extroverts can feel confident in talking and being the center of attention and they aren't constantly feeling self-conscious about themselves and what they're saying.
Extroverts can thrive a lot more.
group settings and being in the spotlight.
Being in the spotlight means that you are the center of attention.
So extroverts don't mind being in the spotlight sometimes.
So that's a big difference from introverts of course.
And contrary to introverts, extroverts can actually feel energized.
in social situations, they actually feel like they're getting energy when they're around other people talking and gauging.
Maybe even complete strangers, who knows.
But they can feel energized by this and they don't go home afterwards and say, oh man, that was so hot.
I need to go and be by myself for five hours.
Right?
They probably don't feel like that.
They feel that they have been recharged and energized from that social situation.
So, extroverts don't need as much solitude.
Extroverts don't need to be alone as much.
And that can...
ourselves and our environments depending on if you're an introvert or an extrovert.
This has a lot of influence over your life.
So I think this is a very important topic to talk about.
And so I'm excited for this one today.
Before we get started, remember to sign up for my US Conversations podcast.
If you feel ready to start.
sometimes be a disadvantage of being an extrovert, is that sometimes extroverts have trouble being alone.
It might be hard for them to be in solitude and they might feel bad or anxious when they spend more time alone.
So that can sometimes be a negative, not all-
extroverts feel like that, but some do.
And so that's something to be aware of as well.
And extroverts can often have many friends.
They might have a very large circle of friends and they don't feel anxious about the fact that they have such a big thriving social life.
It's natural for them.
And extroverts are often more assertive.
So they're not as afraid of confrontation as introverts are.
So extroverts can be more assertive and actually be more comfortable saying what they need to say, confronting other people, talking about that uncomfortable topic.
and just confrontation in general.
Extroverts tend to be more comfortable with that.
So that can be a big advantage of being an extrovert because you don't have that same anxiety when it comes to confrontation.
And one other trait of extroverts that is sometimes true, not always.
but this can sometimes be a weakness, is that sometimes certain extroverts might be more easily distracted.
So remember how I talked about introverts being a little bit more quiet and analytical in their thought process.
Introverts often learn through observation and our very thoughts.
thoughtful and spend a lot of time processing thoughts in their head.
Extroverts can do that too, but there's also a tendency for some extroverts to be more distracted, maybe less focused, and spend less time in careful observation, in thoughtful observation.
So they might...
more distracted in certain situations and might not spend as much time just observing one thing and thinking and processing one idea they might go from one to the next.
Right.
So you might disagree with that if you're an extrovert because you might not have that trait but when I was doing some research online.
that was one of the traits that came up was that extraverts can sometimes beat like that.
So that might be a negative for some extraverts.
And how about the last category?
Ambivirts.
So I talked about introverts and extroverts being on the opposite ends of the spectrum.
But there are also...
ambaverts, which would kind of be like in middle.
So not completely introverted and not completely extroverted, they're kind of in the middle.
And I think a lot of people fall in this category here.
A lot of you are probably ambaverts to some degree.
And some people might make the argument that all of us have.
extrovert and introvert traits, but some of us are more extroverted and some of us are more introverted.
So that might devalue it as well, but I want to talk about the category of ambivotes, just to talk about the middle ground here, the middle of the scale.
This is in general for me.
practicing with real conversations so that you can take your listening to the next level.
The link is down below.
That's patreon.com slash us conversations.
And if you want my specialized training to help you listen better and pronounce better, and if you want my advanced podcast episodes, then make sure to check out my membership and you can become a listening time family member.
If someone were to ask me, are you an introvert or an extrovert?
I would 100% say introvert.
I'm definitely more of an introvert than an extrovert.
However, if I want to be a little bit more specific, I would say that I'm more of an ambrovert.
I would say that I'm more of a social introvert.
That's kind of the phrase.
that I prefer because I'm definitely not an extrovert in general.
I'm definitely more of an introvert.
However, I'm an introvert that can at times seem like an extrovert.
And I think that this is the key here when I talk about being an ambivert or a social introvert is that in certain situations we can
actually seem like extroverts.
So if the context is right, we can start to display a lot of extrovert tendencies and qualities.
But in other situations, we're just classic introverts.
So I'm sure some of you might be able to identify with that.
That in general, you're an introvert.
However, there are certain situations where you suddenly change and it's like you're an extrovert.
So depending on the context, the environment, your mood, the topic that people are talking about, who is around you, depending on these factors, you might suddenly seem like a complete extrovert.
and then afterwards I go back to being an introvert.
So that's kind of how I feel.
There are certain situations in which I feel like I want to have more attention.
I want to talk.
I want to engage people.
I feel outgoing.
I feel energized.
I want to be around these particular people.
in this situation, sometimes I actually feel like that.
But in general, that's not my natural feeling.
In general, I don't want to be the center of attention.
I'm not the most outgoing person.
I really enjoy solitude.
I really enjoy being by myself.
I can be by myself for hours or days.
non-stop and feel great.
So obviously I'm an introvert because an extrovert wouldn't say that.
However, in certain situations it's like someone flips a switch and then I'm an extrovert.
When we say that someone flips a switch, think of someone turning a light on.
They're flipping the light switch and suddenly...
it's light.
So this is a figurative expression that we use to talk about something changing in an instant.
So sometimes it's like someone flipped a switch and I'm suddenly an extrovert.
However, even in those situations after the situation is over.
After I go home, let's say I feel drained.
So...
even when I act and feel like an extrovert afterwards I want my solitude.
I want to be alone.
So as you can see I'm not an extrovert but I'm a social introvert.
I enjoy talking to people, I enjoy conversation, I enjoy social contexts.
However in these contexts I often feel more reserved.
I feel drained.
I don't want to be the center of attention.
So I'm more introverted in that sense.
And what's the best thing to be?
Is it best to be an introvert, an extrovert, an ambivert?
Well, there's no best thing.
Of course, this is just our personality.
However, I think it's best for us to understand and identify.
Remember if you want those advanced episodes in particular, the link is also down below.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you like this podcast, please share it.
Please send it to your friends or your family members who might benefit from it.
And please give it a five star rating and writer review if you can.
Alright, let's get started.
what type of person we are, and then focus on the possible weaknesses that we might have because we're an introvert or because we're an extrovert or because we're an ambivert.
Focus on the weaknesses, the things that can be difficult for us, and try to train in those areas because you can get better at certain things.
If you're an introvert.
You can train yourself and get better in social settings.
You can do that.
And if you're an extrovert, you can train yourself to enjoy solitude more.
So you can get better in these areas.
So in summary, I think that there's no best type, but we should all focus on improving our weaknesses in these areas.
Alright, I hope this episode was interesting for you and it was good practice for your listening.
If you feel ready, I encourage you to sign up for my US Conversations Podcast so you can practice with real conversations and actually understand multiple people when they're talking to each other.
It's a really important step in your language learning process to be able to come.
understand multiple native speakers talking with each other.
So go down and click on a link below to sign up.
That's patreon.com slash US conversations.
And if you want my training to help you become a better listener and to pronounce better, then make sure to sign up for my membership.
The link is also down below.
And if you like this podcast, please share it with anyone else you know who's...
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about introverts and extroverts.
We're also going to talk about one other type of person, an ambivert.
We'll get into that later.
But most people are just familiar with introverts and extroverts.
These two...
ends of the spectrum.
Remember that when we talk about the ends of the spectrum, we're talking about the two opposite extremes on some scale.
Right?
So on one end, we have introverts and on the other end, we have extroverts.
So what is an introvert?
Well, an introvert has many characters.
and extroverts do as well.
So let me talk about some of them.
An introvert is usually characterized as being someone who is generally quiet and reserved.
You don't have to be extremely quiet or extremely reserved, but in general you're more quiet and reserved than an extrovert.
let's say.
And when people think of introverts, they usually think of people that can be a little bit shy around people they don't know around strangers.
The word strangers just refers to people that you're not familiar with.
People you don't know these are strangers.
So introverts are often a little shy.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 112, the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope everybody's doing great.
I've been traveling a lot recently and I'm going to travel again today to be honest.
I think it's been a little too much traveling in the short period of time.
So I'm excited for...
this trip that I have but I'm also excited that after this trip I'm probably not gonna travel for a while and I'll just have a normal routine and have a normal life.
I'm kind of looking forward to having that for a little while but I hope that some of you have some interesting trips planned for maybe this summer or this winter.
retirement isn't necessarily seen as some amazing thing, right?
People don't have this idea that they're gonna have a fantastic life once they're retired and they're gonna do tons of fun activities and travel around the world and all that kind of stuff.
However, oftentimes Americans kind of fantasize.
about retirement.
We romanticize it a little bit.
We tend to think that this will be a great time in our lives and people often prepare very hard for many years for retirement and once they're retired they try to have fun and just enjoy.
their life to the max.
So many retired people like to travel to many places and take up new hobbies and find fun things to do.
By the way, in English we can use the phrasal verb take up when referring to starting a hobby.
So for example, if I
I took up tennis.
That just means that I started this hobby.
So older people, when they're retired, they often take up new hobbies and try to do a lot of fun activities.
So in that sense, this part of old age can definitely be seen positively in the US.
However, there are also some negative feelings when it comes to it.
to old age because in the US, just like everywhere else in the world, older people tend to have more health problems.
So there are often aches and pains that people have to deal with.
In English, the word ache refers to a pain that you have.
For example, if I say I have a headache, I'm saying that I have pain.
head.
So when you get older you tend to have more aches and pains.
Your body doesn't feel the same as it felt really younger and you might have some more serious health conditions.
You might have health conditions that don't allow you to have this really active lifestyle.
So we never know.
know what our health would be like when we're older.
And so that can cause maybe some fear when it comes to getting older.
So as you can see there are some mixed opinions, mixed feelings because on the one hand when you get older and you retire in the US you can often have a lot of fun.
But on the...
other hand, your body might not be in the best shape to have all of this fun.
So it's not completely positive or completely negative.
In terms of my view and how I view hold age, I think that there are positives and negatives of course.
And I think my advice to myself would be to try to do...
well now in order to reap the benefits later.
In English, when we say that you reap benefits, we're saying that you receive the benefits of something that you do now and reap those benefits and you receive them at a later time usually.
So this can be applied to your body if you take care of your body when you're
then hopefully you'll have a better body in the future and if you take care of your mind when you're younger hopefully you'll be in good mental health in the future and if you focus on your relationships when you're younger hopefully you'll have good relationships in the future in your older and you'll have a good circle of people around you.
depending on where you live, which hemisphere you're in.
Hopefully you get the chance to do some fun stuff or travel to some interesting places this year.
And of course, I hope your English learning is going well.
And if you're having trouble understanding native speakers and you need more help understanding fast speech, especially when native speakers reduce...
you the head are willing to help you in case need help and who you can connect with at that age.
So hopefully I'm able to do those things.
Next let's talk a little bit about the living situation of older people in the US.
So in the US older people tend to try to be as independent as possible.
for as long as possible.
This is just part of our culture.
We are more independent than other cultures and people really value being able to take care of themselves.
Most people don't really want other people to take care of them.
Right?
People here want to take care of themselves, feel independent, feel.
in control of their own life, that's one of the cultural elements here.
So that also tends to apply to a lot of older people.
They want to hold on to their independence as long as possible.
So it's quite common for people here to continue living on their own, even when they're a little bit older.
Right?
if people are 80 years old but they're in great health and they don't need any help with their daily lives it's possible that they might live alone even if they're 80 years old of course the older you get the more likely it is that you'll need some help right but people in their 70s and even people
in their 80s might still be very independent and might be able to do everything for themselves.
So if they can, they tend to do that.
However, sometimes they decide to go to a retirement community.
These are communities or residential buildings that are designed for seniors.
By the way, we can use the word senior to talk about an older person.
So these communities are intended for seniors who can still take care of themselves mostly, but they might have very easy access to help or care if they need it in these communities.
So they live among other...
older people there and they probably have a lot of activities and social events and things like that and they have easy access to help if they need it but they can still live independently for the most part.
So we have those retirement communities and a lot of people like those types of communities where those reliefs meant the wholves, the
older because it really provides a lot of socializing and things like that.
And if people need a little bit more assistance if they need a little more help with their daily tasks, their daily life, maybe their health, then they might live in an assisted living facility.
This is place where...
people who aren't completely independent might live and they receive some help.
They receive more help than a retirement community, for example.
So they'll probably have daily help with their tasks, help issues, things like that, but they can still be somewhat independent and try to do a lot of things.
on their own in this place.
But if the person really can't take care of themselves and they really need someone else to take care of them and help them out, then they often go to live in a nursing home.
And in a nursing home, you have all the help that you need someone is always there to provide you with whatever assistance.
sounds and say things in a way that's very unclear or fast or shortened.
Then I encourage you to sign up for my membership so that you can get my specialized training where I help you identify these different reductions and sounds and patterns that will help you become a little more comfortable with fast speed.
is necessary.
That is kind of a long-term care facility.
We might call it.
So you receive everything that you need in order to live your daily life and you have all the help that you might want.
So that's for people that really can't take care of themselves anymore.
So those are some different.
living situations that people might have once they reach an older age.
So how about living with your kids or your grandkids when you're older?
Well, this isn't that common in the US.
It happens.
Some people do this, but it's definitely not as common as it is in many other countries around the world.
For example, in Mexico, this is really common.
a lot of grandparents live with their children and their grandchildren, especially if one of the grandparents has passed away.
For example, if the grandfather is no longer alive, it's very common for the grandmother to live with her children and her grandchildren.
So that's common in many countries, however...
in the US it's not as common.
When I was growing up I remember that I had some friends who had this living situation.
Their grandparents lived with them, but practically all of these friends that had this were children of immigrants.
So their parents and their grandparents were from other countries.
And in their countries this was...
normal.
So I can't really remember having friends who weren't the children of immigrants who had this type of living situation.
So that should show you that it's not that common here.
Again, people do this and some people they like this, but I would say that it's not the norm here.
By the way, in English we can say...
that something is the norm when we want to say that it's normal or it's the normal thing to do.
So that's not the norm here.
However, me personally, I tend to like the idea of having your parents live with you when they get too old to take care of themselves.
That's something that I have always offered.
to my parents, if they need to live with us, then I think that they should.
I think that if it's possible, that would be a nice thing to be able to do for my parents since they took care of me all throughout my childhood.
So I like that idea, but I would say that many other people might not like that idea.
And so.
that really just depends on your own personality, your own preferences, not everyone would agree with that.
But that's kind of my opinion.
And lastly, let's talk about some activities that older people might do.
So in the US, older people are encouraged to take care of their health and older people tend to...
the conscious that they need to exercise and keep their body in shape.
And so it's really common to see older people walking early in the morning or at different times during the day.
But I tend to walk pretty early in the morning.
I like walking and I see almost exclusively
older people.
I don't really see a lot of younger people walking around the neighborhood at this time and that's because younger people tend to have to work or go to school or whatever.
But you get my point.
I see a lot of older people walking around the neighborhood pretty early in the morning and they do this in groups sometimes or they might.
So click on the link in the episode description below this episode to join my membership and you'll get my listening practice seminars.
You'll get that specialized training.
And of course, if you're a Spanish or a Portuguese speaker, you can get my ebook, my collection of three short stories, mystery stories that I wrote in English and translated into Spanish and into Portuguese.
So...
do it with their spouse, but that's very common and it's common for them to try to engage in light exercise.
So they might have some exercise classes or programs.
It just depends on their preference and there are some sports that older people really like in the youth.
I would say the most popular sport for seniors in the US is golf.
I love golf.
I haven't played in years, but I still love this sport and I hope to take it up again in the future.
But if you play golf in the US, you notice that there are a lot of older people.
playing on the course.
So this sport is not very hard on your body.
So I think that's why it's a great type of sport for older people.
And I sometimes see older people playing tennis too.
Tennis is definitely harder on your body than golf.
You definitely have to move more, but I think that a lot of people.
people can also play tennis and enjoy this sport.
And I'm sure there are plenty of other sports that would be good options for seniors as well.
And some older people like to garden.
They might try to take really good care of their garden or their front yard or back yard.
That can be a good active.
for people and it can be something that is even a little bit therapeutic for people.
A lot of people like to garden because it's good for their mind.
So that can be a great activity for older people and of course if they can, older people tend to like to travel.
As I mentioned, people once they retire, some...
want to travel as much as possible with all of their free time.
So that's another great activity and of course one other very common activity is spending time with grandchildren.
That's obviously something that a lot of grandparents really like to do.
All right why don't we stop there for today?
I hope this episode was interesting for you or remember that you have the transfer.
script available if you need it.
And if you want to practice with the difficult sounds of English and you need help understanding native speakers when they speak fast, make sure to become a listening time member so that you can access my listening practice seminars and start to understand those concepts, those patterns a little bit better.
So you can click on it.
If you want to practice reading fiction in English, the links to those are also in the episode description.
All right, today we're going to talk about old age and I'll focus specifically on the US and what old age is like in the US and maybe what life is like for older people and things like that.
So hopefully this will be an interesting topic for you.
and remember that if you need the transcript that's also in the description you can go down there and click on that if you need it and if you like this podcast please share it with your friends and your family members who could find it useful people who are learning English and please give it a five-star rating and write a review all right let's get started are your ears ready you video
know what time it is, it's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about old age.
So first of all, let's talk about how old age is viewed in the US.
I think there are a lot of mixed opinions when it comes to this.
The phrase mixed opinions refers to opinions that might be contradictory.
Maybe some are positive, some are negative, these are mixed opinions.
So there are some positive feelings when it comes to old age.
And I think one of the main positive things is that we tend to associate old age with retirement with being retired and not working anymore.
and in the US retirement is seen positively.
It's interesting because I was talking with my wife about this recently and we were comparing the attitudes regarding retirement in the US and in Mexico and it's interesting because in Mexico and probably in most countries around the world.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 127 of the Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
Today my voice is a little bit weak because I'm a little bit sick, so I'm sorry about that.
I appreciate you bearing with me.
I appreciate your patience.
By the way, speaking of patience.
This is the topic of today's episode.
Patients, so I want to talk about this today and talk about some different situations in which patients is required.
It's necessary.
So I think this will be a good topic for all of us because I think that pretty much everybody has room for improvement.
When it comes...
and I really want to improve in this regard.
I need to improve and I try to do so every day.
So I'm not talking from the perspective of someone who has tons and tons of patients.
I'm talking as someone who needs to improve in this area.
So what are some different situations in which we need to be?
patient.
The first one that comes to mind is when we're sitting in traffic.
By the way we use that phrase sitting in traffic when we talk about being in your car and your in traffic it's moving very slowly or sometimes it's not moving at all we say that you're sitting in traffic.
So this is the first situation that comes to mind when I think of patients because it's a very common occurrence and for me it's one of the most frustrating situations.
I hate being in traffic.
It's one of the worst things.
I'm sure a lot of you agree with me about this.
So if we're not patient then traffic.
can really bother us.
It can really annoy us and sometimes it can ruin your day because you allow your mood to be negatively affected by the fact that you have to wait in traffic.
So this is something that we want to avoid because we can't control traffic.
It's completely...
out of our control and if we get bothered by traffic, this doesn't help us.
Right?
We can't do anything to change the situation, to make the traffic suddenly go away.
We have no control over that.
So I don't think it's worth it to lose our patience to lose our...
are cool and get really angry when they're stuck in traffic.
There's no benefit to them.
By the way, when we say that you lose your cool, this means that you lose your patience and you snap, get mad, get really frustrated.
So we don't wanna lose our cool just because traffic is banned.
So that's the first thing.
that comes to mind because I'm guilty of this.
Sometimes when I'm stuck in traffic, I get frustrated and I let it affect my mood, but I definitely shouldn't do this.
So that's one that I've to work on.
Another situation in which we need patience is when we're dealing with a difficult person.
We've all been there.
We all know how...
this is by the way when I say that we've all been there what I'm saying is we've all been in this situation so we've all been there we've all had to deal with a difficult person in some situation or another and sometimes we can lose our cool and we can allow this situation or the
person to frustrate us to the point where we act differently.
We don't do what we should do or maybe we talk in a way that isn't the best.
So I'm sure you know what I'm talking about.
Sometimes we have to deal with difficult people and it's important to not let them agree.
us down to the level where we're getting really mad for no good reason.
Sometimes we get angry at another person for a legitimate reason.
Obviously, I'm not talking about that.
I'm not talking about being angry with a person because they've done some horrible thing.
They've committed some wicked crime or something.
to patients.
By the way, we use that phrase gloom for improvement.
This just means that you have space to improve.
You are not perfect.
There are still improvements that you can make.
So we all have gloom for improvement when it comes to patients.
So this should be a good topic for today's episode and hopefully it will inspire you.
something like that.
That's not what I'm referring to.
I'm referring to situations where a person is just hard to deal with and you need to be patient with them.
So that can happen in the workplace, that can happen just in public, at stores, with employees, at certain companies, in a lot of situations.
So, doing that.
with these people requires patience and it's good to act patiently in these situations because sometimes we are the difficult people.
Sometimes I am the difficult person or you are the difficult person and other people have to deal with us.
So I think that we should be patient with people.
people because sometimes we need people to be patient with us.
So it goes both ways.
And another situation in which we need to be patient is listening to people.
You might not think of this as a situation that requires patience, but it does because people talk and we should try to listen and sometimes people...
talk a lot or their story that they're telling takes a long time and you can get bored or you can start to get distracted or you can stop listening for example and we sometimes lose patience when we have to listen to other people talk because everybody loves to talk about
what they want to talk about.
People like to be the ones to share things and talk about things, but not everybody likes to listen.
And that's a more important skill is being able to listen when other people talk to you.
And that's something that we should all try to improve on and make sure...
that we're patient and we are listening to people and we are genuinely caring about what other people are saying and if you do this, if you demonstrate patience in this situation, you're going to have better relationships.
People are going to like you more.
You're going to have fewer arguments maybe.
the other person is going to feel more cared about, for example, and you'll have better communication overall.
So I think that we should all practice with just being able to shut our mouths and listen to other people speak and not just immediately try to talk.
and interrupt and say what we want to say, we should let the other person finish before we start giving our opinion about something, for example.
So that's another situation.
Another time when we need to be patient is when we're learning a language.
This is very relevant to all of you and to me because I'm a language learner.
Learning a language.
takes a long time.
I constantly get questions from people asking about their language learning process and usually they express frustration that they aren't improving fast or they feel stuck or they feel like their progress is not nudging fake
what they want it to be, they feel like they have a problem, they ask me questions and they frame the question kind of like saying that there's something wrong with them.
Why aren't I improving how I should be?
I have a problem with this.
What's wrong with me?
What should I be doing differently?
I can't.
all of us to be a little bit more patient in our everyday lives and hopefully that will help us out.
So that's what we'll talk about today.
Remember that you can sign up for my US Conversations podcast if you feel ready to start practicing with real conversations between native speakers.
In each episode I talked to someone from a different part of the country from the...
constantly get questions like this and these are legitimate questions.
I'm not saying that these aren't good questions.
However, what I want to say is the vast majority of the time when people ask me this question, it's not like these people are studying in the complete wrong way and wasting their time and they need to.
to completely change everything about their language learning routine.
It's not that.
Usually they are just advancing slowly and they don't realize it and they don't realize how long it takes to learn a language.
Let me give you an example of my language learning process.
I've been speaking Spanish for over a decade.
Not a year or a couple years, not five years, not eight years.
No, I've been speaking Spanish for over ten years, over a decade now.
Okay, my wife is a Spanish speaker.
She only speaks to me in Spanish.
Okay, I lived in Mexico for six years.
My whole life wasn't Spanish for six years.
And yet, today, over 10 years later, I'm still in the process of learning Spanish.
Not actively, I don't actively study Spanish.
However, I'm constantly learning new things, new words.
There are things that I don't understand.
There are things that I miss understand.
There are things that I need people to repeat.
Because I didn't get it and I make mistakes all the time all of this is What I deal with and I've been speaking Spanish for over a decade I've lived in the country for many years my wife only speaks in Spanish to me and Yet I'm still improving.
I still make mistakes.
I still have an accent
I still don't sound anything like a native speaker, et cetera.
So just know that learning a language takes a really long time in terms of getting to a very high level.
Of course, you can reach an intermediate level in a pretty short period of time if you dedicate a lot of hours to it.
And you can even reach an advanced level in a relatively...
short period of time depending on your motivation and how many hours you're dedicating to it.
However, when your goal is to become really good at a language that is inevitably going to take a long time.
When I say that something is inevitable, what I'm saying is that it's unavoidable.
So there's no way to
this if you want to reach a really high level in English then that's going to take a really long time.
Okay?
That's just how it is.
We need to be patient.
And similarly another situation in which we need to have patience is when we are trying to achieve a goal.
Learning a language is one goal.
That's one example.
But when...
we want to achieve any goal.
We need patience.
If you want to lose weight, that's not going to happen tomorrow.
Right?
You can't just expect that to happen in 24 hours.
You need to stick with it for a certain period of time before you actually see these results.
By the way, the phrase stick with it.
Just means that you continue doing something.
So you need to stick with it and be patient and eventually you'll see results but not overnight.
The word overnight refers to from one day to the next.
You're not going to see results in just one day.
You need to have a little more patience than that.
Or if your goal is to...
US and we talk about a bunch of different topics and you get to learn a lot about the US, culture, different topics.
These conversations are really interesting and we speak naturally and I provide the transcript for you.
So you can follow along and you also have definitions of new words and phrases that
learn some new skill.
Maybe you want to learn a programming language or something like that.
That's not going to happen overnight.
You need patience.
You need to accept that this is going to take some time and eventually you'll reach your goal, right?
If you stick with it.
But patience is necessary when we set goals and we want to achieve these goals.
And another situation that requires a lot of patience is when we're going through government processes.
This is probably the worst one.
For me, this is the thing that is the most frustrating and tests my patience the most.
And I am going through a government process and the government.
takes a long time to do the process and respond to me or to do what they need to do.
This can be really frustrating.
I need to have more patience when it comes to this because this is inevitable.
We all deal with these processes.
We all live in countries that have...
governments that are not efficient and not very well run and are not the best institutions with the best customer service and all of that.
All of us are in this situation regardless of which country you live in.
So we need to have...
patients and know that these processes are going to take a while and we can't do that much to influence this.
So when my wife was going through the immigration process to live in the US, this took a long time.
This took multiple years.
So this was something that required a lot of patients
And at times it felt like it was never gonna end.
But of course it did.
And we got through the process and everything is okay now.
But during that period, it was hard to have patience sometimes.
And that was something that really taught me to just wait and to not allow things.
that I can't control to negatively impact my life and my daily life and my my mood.
I needed to kind of not focus on this process and just live my life be patient and wait.
So that was a big one.
And one more situation.
that I wanted to mention, probably the most important one, the most important situation in which we need patients is when you are parenting, when you have kids, when you have kids, your level of patience is tested in a way unlike anything else.
So you are dealing with...
small people, humans that have not learned to act properly, behave well, communicate effectively.
They don't know this yet.
They don't have these skills, especially at young ages.
So if you don't have patience, this is going to be very hard for you.
You're going to deal with a lot of...
situations in which you are annoyed or irritated or you feel desperate because you know how something needs to be but your kid doesn't.
They don't know this or they do the opposite or they do a lot of things.
you might not know that we use during the conversation.
So if you're interested in that, the link is in the description below this episode.
That's patreon.com slash us conversations.
And if you want my advanced podcast episodes, if you want to practice with me speaking at normal speed, then make sure to sign up for my membership.
The link is also in the description below.
that can possibly irritate us and affect our mood, and they can cause us to lose our cool sometimes and we need to be careful with this and we need to exercise patience and to really understand that kids need instruction and discipline and they need time.
They need time to learn.
learn these things and to learn how to behave properly, learn how to communicate, learn how to express their feelings in a good and normal way.
They need time before they can do all of this effectively.
So we can't expect them to just be born with these skills.
So we can't expect them to just be born with these skills.
That's simply not reality.
And as a parent, patience is necessary.
You need to understand that these processes take a long time.
These kids will need a long time before they really learn all these lessons.
And they can do things the way that you can do them.
Has an adult.
For me, that's probably the most important situation in which patients is definitely required.
So those were some different situations, but there are plenty of others.
I hope this episode was interesting for you, and hopefully it got you thinking a little bit about your patient's levels, and maybe it can inspire all of us to be allowed.
a little more patient.
And if you feel ready to practice with real conversations between native speakers, then make sure to sign up for my US Conversations Podcast.
The link is in the description below this episode.
You'll love this.
These conversations are really interesting.
And it's great practice for your listening.
So make sure to sign up at patreon.com slash US Conversations.
And if you want to join my membership and get my specialized training for your listening and your pronunciation and my advanced podcast episodes, then make sure to join my membership.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you're a Spanish or a Portuguese speaker and you want to read fiction in English, then check out my ebook.
The links are also down below.
And if you like this podcast, I'm really appreciated.
If you become a listening time family member, you get to new advanced episodes every month.
And if you're a Spanish or a Portuguese speaker, check out my ebook if you want to read fiction in English.
Those links are down below as well.
And as always, if you like this podcast, please give it a 5-star rating, write a review, and share it with anyone else you know who's learning English.
Alright, let's get started.
ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about patience.
So first of all, I need to mention that I'm not the most patient person in the world.
This is an area in which I need to improve a lot.
I am willing to admit that because I'm not the most patient person in the world.
most patient person and I really want to improve in this area.
I look at my wife for example, she's more patient than I am and I try to learn from her because there are times when we're both dealing with the same situation and she is patient and calm and I.
more agitated.
The word agitated means that you are bothered and anxious for some reason.
So I might be agitated and yet she's perfectly fine and we're dealing with the same issue.
So I can see that other people have more patience than me sometimes.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 147 of the Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
I hope that this podcast has been helpful for you for your English learning.
And I hope that you find these episodes interesting.
And in today's episode, I want to talk...
about some different attractions in San Diego, the city where I live.
What do I mean by attractions?
Well, I'm referring to like, theme parks and things like that.
Right?
So this will be an episode that will give you some different information, maybe even recommendations of places.
It's kind of like a big, awesome aquarium here in San Diego in the sense that you can see really cool marine wildlife.
When we use the word marine, like that, we're talking about animals or plants in the ocean.
So you can see some really cool marine.
wildlife at SeaWorld.
There are all kinds of different animals to see there.
And what makes SeaWorld kind of unique and different from just an aquarium, let's say.
One of the things that makes it unique is that it has these different shows.
We would call them.
You don't just see the animals.
You also watch these different performances that SeaWorld puts on with these animals.
We can use the phrasal verb put on in this context to mean that there's some type of performance or show or exhibit or something like that.
that is hosted by certain hosts.
They put on a show.
So SeaWorld puts on these amazing shows in which these animals actually perform.
It's pretty crazy when you think about it and when you see what these animals are trained to do.
So admittedly...
I haven't been to SeaWorld in many years, so I'm talking from my experience as a kid.
However, I do remember as a kid that my favorite show, I don't know if it's still there, but when I was a kid, they had this show, which was a Sea Lion and Otter show.
These are two different animals.
If you don't know what they are, you should look them up because it will be hard for me to describe these animals here.
You should probably just look at a picture of them to know what I'm talking about.
But in this show, they had these sea lions and these otters that acted and did...
this whole performance it was amazing there were also human performers human actors there too and they performed with these animals and there was a whole storyline it was really cool and there are other shows like this with dolphins whales and things like that i don't know what's still there
what's not there anymore.
I know that SeaWorld has changed a lot since I last went.
So they might not have all of these shows that I'm remembering, but I'm sure they still have some shows and this is still part of that theme park, right?
And if I'm not mistaken, there are also different rides, parts that are going on.
hide, refers to this attraction in which you can get on something and it takes you fast or it spins you around or whatever like a roller coaster is a ride.
So there are rides.
And I went a long time ago, I remember that there was this 4D Ruby 4D because...
It was 3D, but it also added the element of like spraying you with water and things like that as part of the movie.
So that was really amazing back then in the early 2000s when I went.
That was a really fun thing for kids and there wasn't really anything.
that you can visit if you come to San Diego and you have the desire to see some of the different theme parks here in the city.
So I'm sure this episode will be interesting for you, especially if you want to come to San Diego one day.
And I wanted to do something a little different with this podcast episode.
else like it at that time.
So I have good memories of that as well.
So SeaWorld is definitely an interesting option to consider if you want to go to a theme park in San Diego.
Another theme park which is located in the north of San Diego, the north of this county as we would call it is Legoland.
This theme park is exactly what it sounds like.
It's completely Lego focused.
The whole theme of this park is Legos.
You sure most of you are familiar with Legos.
This brand of these little bricks that you can use to build things.
The panels here make your building very easy for you.
Mostly cool, or happy with pendants and화.
Now we will be doing some moving film of комна truly.
children and even for adults.
So Legoland is a theme park here that is completely Lego focused and just the fact that its theme is Legos makes it very attractive for her families with young children because kids love Legos.
So imagine
being a young child and knowing that there's an amusement park that's just a bunch of big Legos.
That sounds amazing.
So this thing park is more for younger kids.
I think that I read that it targets children from the ages of two to twelve.
So younger children.
really like this park.
In all honesty it's not really for adults so if you're traveling and you don't have children you're in San Diego.
I don't know if Legoland will appeal to you because as I just said it's more for smaller kids.
However it's still interesting to see this park.
It's completely like...
go focus and there are different rides but these rides aren't really scary.
They don't really have scary roller coasters or things like that because they want kids to be able to enjoy these rides and besides these rides there are also other attractions like different play areas with...
Legos where people can build things with Legos and they have these Lego cars I think that you can drive and there are normal playgrounds a playground is a play area like park that has a slide and swings and the different things that children play on
I think you know what I'm referring to.
So there are playgrounds and I think I saw there's also rock climbing where the kids can climb up these rock walls and a lot of other fun things for kids as well.
So if you're traveling to San Diego with kids, Lego Land is a place you might want to consider going to.
Next, I want to talk about Belmont Park.
This isn't as famous as the other attractions, the other theme parks that I'm talking about.
However, there's a special place in my heart.
I heard a Belmont Park.
We use that phrase in English, that expression.
There's a special place in my heart for something.
We're talking about something...
that will always be special to us, even years later, even if it doesn't seem that amazing now.
We might have good memories that place or we might have positive feelings associated with that place.
And that's how I feel about Belmont Park because I went there as a...
I want to read a review that someone left for me on Apple podcasts because I've heard some podcasters do this where they read a review from one of their listeners during their podcast episodes and I thought that was kind of cool.
It's kind of like thanking people.
teenager with my teenage friends and I liked going there specifically because it's right on the water.
It's this amusement park that's right on the beach basically here in San Diego and so you have the beach right there and there's Belmont Park right next to it and it has this
really california field.
I think that's why I like it so much because there are certain parks like this that are right on the water or on pier like the Santa Monica pier.
Pier is this wooden structure that extends from the beach out over into the water so in Santa Monica there.
is an amusement park on the pier, right on the water, and that's a really California-type thing.
And it makes me think of that cartoon rocket power.
I'm sure some of you watched this show as a kid.
Rocket power was this show where these kids do these extreme sports.
like skateboarding, surfing, and things like that.
And they live right by the beach and there's this ping park on the pier, on this beach.
And it reminds me of the Santa Monica pier.
And maybe that was the inspiration behind this show.
I don't know.
But that whole feel is very...
California-esque.
It's something that makes us think of California.
When we see a theme park right by the ocean, I just thought of another one in Santa Cruz.
There's also a theme park right on the water.
I like this and so Belmont Park is like this as well and so...
I really like that park.
However, it's small.
It's not a really huge thing park.
However, it has the classic amusement park attractions like the roller coaster and a merry-go-round.
This is that ride that goes in a circle where usually kids sit on a horses
or other fake animals and they go around and circle.
This is a merry-go-round.
So it has a merry-go-round and bumper cars where you are in the car and you run into the other cars you bump into each other, as we say.
That's bumper cars.
So it has all of the classic amusement park rides and attractions.
However, for me, I really like it because it's right on the water and it has this very California feel to it.
It reminds me of things like rocket power, like I mentioned.
So, that's another attraction that isn't as popular, but I wanted to include it because I think it's cool.
And one other attraction may be the most famous attraction in San Diego.
Diego is our zoo.
And I've already talked about this before, so I'm just gonna talk briefly about it again.
Our zoo is one of the biggest and best zoos in the country and maybe even in the world.
I don't know, but at least in this country, the San Diego Zoo is very famous.
It's one of the best.
And last year, my family and I had an annual pass for the zoo.
An annual pass just means you have a membership for one year where you can go whenever you want.
You just pay that one time at the beginning and then you can go whenever you want for the next 12 months.
listening and for reviewing the podcast.
So I want to do that today and maybe I'll also do that in future episodes if you guys like this tradition.
But let me read one.
This was written by Kali and Jesus I think.
And the review says, your episodes help me a lot Robinson.
So we had that last year and so we went to the zoo a lot last year, but our annual passes expired.
This means that they're no longer valid, right, because the year has already passed.
So they're expired now, so we probably won't go any time soon, but we might...
by annual passes again next year.
Who knows?
But our zoo is really cool.
It has tons of animals, all kinds of different animals from different parts of the world.
And there are different themed areas in the zoo, like there's an area that's for the savanna animals, right at an area that's more for the bears.
and you get my point.
Zoo has these different areas where you can see different animals from different parts of the world and it has a lot of other features and attraction as well.
Like the Sky Fari, I think it's called.
This is where you take a cable car and it takes you up.
over the zoo.
So you're like flying in the air over the zoo and you have a really cool view of not just the zoo but the areas around the zoo.
It's cool unless you're afraid of heights.
If you have that fear then that specific attraction might not be.
for you.
But for everyone else, it's really cool.
And of course there are things like bus tours so you can go around the zoo without walking and there's a tour guide who explains everything to and there are different shows and performances.
I think there's a movie if
not the stake and I think they have a little movie theater.
I've never been in there, but I see it.
Walk by that part of the park.
And there's a kids area that's really cool where kids can play and there are a lot of different interesting things there for young kids.
So it's a really family friendly place when you go to the zoo.
in San Diego you see tons of children a lot of strollers strollers are the things that you use to push your kids around right they have wheels they're like little cars right these are strollers so you see a lot of strollers a lot of kids and a lot of foreigners if you go to the zoo in San Diego you'll hear
all kinds of languages being spoken because people from all around the world visit San Diego and when they do, they often go to the zoo.
I think that the zoo is probably one of the top three attractions, one of the top three things that tourists are interested in seeing when they're here in San Diego.
So if you come here, you'll definitely want to come to the zoo if that's something that's interesting for you.
And lastly, I want to mention a theme park that's not here anymore, but it used to be here when I was a kid.
And that was Soak City.
This was a really fun water park with water slimes.
and different rides that have water in them and pools and place structures with water.
It was awesome and I'm kind of sad that it's not there anymore.
Now it's a different theme park called Sesame Place, like Sesame Street with Big Bird and Elmo and those kids.
love what you shared.
Thank you so much.
I'm improving my pronunciation and English fluency.
Keep it up.
Thank you, Kali and Jesus for your review and for listening.
And if you leave me a review on Spotify or Apple podcasts, I might read it like that in a future episode.
So I encourage you to do that and thank you all for listening.
I think they still have a lot of the water elements there because before sesame place it also had already changed to a different park so when I was a kid it was so city and then it was a Quattica and then it became sesame place so now it's not only water focused.
but I think it still has those elements there.
But I have awesome memories of going to Soak City as a kid and going down these big water slides that at the time seemed really scary to me, but I wanted to go down them and be cool and when I actually finally had the courage to do the really big...
slides.
It was really fun for me and I wanted to go again and again and I have great memories of that theme park but unfortunately now it's something else.
Maybe Sesame Place is cool too.
I don't know but I only have experience with the now extinct as so city but
I wanted to mention that one as a bonus one here because that was honestly my favorite attraction in San Diego as a kid more than any other place.
But now it's gone.
All right, I hope this episode was interesting for you.
If you're traveling to San Diego, you'll definitely want to consider some of these places, some of these theme parks.
I'm sure
you'll find them interesting.
And if you feel like these podcast episodes are getting a little easy for you, then make sure to sign up for my advanced podcast episodes by becoming a listening time family member.
The link is down below in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you want my other podcast in which I talked to different English
from around the country about tons of different topics, then you can also go down and click on the link below to sign up.
That's patreon.com slash us conversations.
And as always, please give this podcast a five star rating and write a review.
And maybe I'll read your review in the future episode.
And please share this podcast with anyone else you know.
of course.
And as always I want to remind you that if you want my advanced episodes, then make sure to become a listening type family member.
The link is in the description below.
And if you want my US Conversations Podcast, in which I talk to other English teachers from around the country and we talk about a lot of topics and I give you the transcript.
and the definitions of key words and phrases that we use.
You can also sign up for that.
The link is also in the description below this episode.
All right, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about some different attractions in San Diego.
Some different...
places that you might be interested in visiting if you come here.
So the first one that I want to mention is SeaWorld.
I have a friend that describes SeaWorld in this way.
He says that SeaWorld is the biggest and coolest aquarium that exists.
And SeaWorld is not
technically an aquarium.
However, I really like this description of SeaWorld because in many ways it kind of is an aquarium because it has tons of ocean animals that you can see there.
So it might not be a traditional conventional aquarium.
However,
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 144 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope your English learning is going great and that you're ready for another episode to practice your listening skills.
And in today's episode, we're going to talk about buying a car.
specifically buying a car in the US and what some different options are here and some different things that you need to consider before buying a car.
And the reason why I chose this topic for today is because I'm most likely going to be buying a car soon.
look like.
Well there are a number of things you could possibly do.
You could buy an older car in cash maybe because it's cheaper.
When we say that you buy something in cash this means that you're paying the whole price.
You're not financing it.
When you finance something this means that you don't pay the
price now.
You pay a down payment which is the initial amount that you pay and then the rest of the money gets paid off over a certain number of months.
That's fine-ancing.
So you could buy an older car in cash because it's cheaper or maybe you want
a car that's used but that isn't that old and it's still kind of expensive so you can finance that used car you could finance a new car maybe you want a new vehicle and you probably don't have the money to pay for it in cash but you can finance it or you could possibly
lease a car.
I'll talk about that option just a little bit.
You probably aren't super familiar with that term, but just wait and I'll explain it.
So first let's talk about buying a car in cash and you could buy this car from a couple different sources.
You could buy a used car in cash.
from a private seller, just a random person who's selling their car.
In the US, you might see offers like this on the website Craigslist.
This is a very popular website for selling used cars and a lot of things.
And maybe on Facebook Marketplace.
I've seen a lot of used cars for sale.
sale there.
And when you buy a used car from a private seller, of course you might find cheaper options, you might find better deals.
However, it's also riskier in most cases because you don't know this person.
You don't know if they're being honest with you and you.
might not have the ability to do a full inspection of the car before you buy it.
Hopefully you can bring a mechanic or something to go check it out.
But I've done this before.
I bought an old used car in Mexico from a private seller and I brought a mechanic with me and
it still went badly.
I didn't get a full report from the mechanic about all the problems, and then when we bought it, we realized it had a ton of problems.
So even if you take a mechanic with you to go check it out, you still run the risk of buying a car that has
problems that you don't know about.
Right?
And of course, when you buy from a private seller, you don't have as many options for different things.
You're not going to get a warranty, a warranty refers to a guarantee that the seller gives you that says that if there's a problem with the item that you're going to get, you're
they're selling you within a certain time period you can get your money back or return it or whatever.
So you're not going to get a warranty from some random guy who's selling you a car.
So those are some things you need to consider.
You can also buy a used car from dealership maybe a used car dealership.
That's my plan and I hope that in the near future this actually happens.
And so this topic is on my mind and I've had to think about some of these different things that I'm going to mention here in this episode.
But I'm not really going to talk about my specific car buying experience.
a place where they just sell used cars or maybe the actual company dealership, the company of the car and that dealership might sell new and used vehicles there.
So you don't have to buy a used car from a private seller, you can go to a dealership and there are some things to consider if you buy from a dealership.
First of all, you'll have to deal with a salesperson.
And that's not fun when it comes to buying a used car.
These salespeople aren't known for having the most, let's say, integrity or honesty when dealing with potential customers.
Some of them.
are honest and some of them aren't and you don't know who you're gonna get when you go but I think most of us would agree that it's usually not really fun to deal with a car salesperson but that's what you'll have to do if you buy from a dealership however you're probably gonna have less risk it's
probably going to be a safer option because it's not just some random guy who's selling you a car.
It's a dealership that has a reputation and a whole company and they might give you a warranty or the car might still have its original warranty as well but they might give you a warranty and you can probably see the full
history of the car, everything that has happened to it, it's probably a safer option.
But you might pay more than if you were to buy from a private seller and there are two ways you can buy from a dealership.
You can pay in cash, pay the full amount, or you can finance the car.
And you can finance a car in two ways really.
You can get the financing directly from the dealership.
They will lend you the money and you have to pay them back.
Or you can go through a bank and get an auto loan from a bank.
And then use that to finance the car.
An auto loan refers to money that is lent to someone.
It's money that someone borrows to buy a car.
That's an auto loan.
So you can get an auto loan through a bank as well.
And there are pros and cons to both options.
You have to decide what's right for you.
And you can also finance a new car.
Right?
Maybe if you already need to finance the car, you think that it's worth it to just do a new car.
Get a new car instead of a used car and pay a little more.
And of course, there are some advantages here because the car has no history.
It hasn't been driven before.
It hasn't had accidents and all these different problems.
before, you're the first one to own it.
So that's awesome.
And you're probably going to get a warranty.
Hopefully you'll get a warranty if you're buying it through the dealer and it's new.
And so if something happens within a certain time or a certain number of miles that you drive, then you know that you can go to that.
dealer and say, hey, there's a problem with my car.
What are you going to do about this?
And you have that safety, so to say.
And if you finance a new car, the interest rate is usually lower.
So you don't have to pay as much in terms of interest rate.
And sometimes you can get a really good deal like...
I'll talk in general about this process and sure you'll learn some new vocabulary words in this episode.
So it'll be good for your listening and also to learn some new words.
So that's what we'll talk about today.
And remember that if you want my help, my training to help you understand English speakers.
my brother-in-law recently bought a car and he got a really low interest rate because they were having a special deal at the end of the year.
So he was able to get a new car at a very low interest rate because of that.
So you can find those deals sometimes.
But of course you still have to deal with a salesperson.
and they're probably gonna try to get you to add on extra things to the car so that you pay more and they're gonna be kind of pushy.
When someone is pushy, they're really insisting on something.
They're really trying to push you to do something.
So that's not pleasant and you'll have to deal with that.
many times and the car will be more expensive of course.
So there are some downsides to financing a new car.
And you can also lease a car.
I mentioned this earlier.
When you lease a vehicle, this means that you get to drive a new car.
Usually for three years I think that's the normal length.
And then after those three years, you either return it to the dealership or you can buy it if you want to keep that car.
And this is an interesting option because you can drive a new car without needing to buy it.
So you just pay this certain amount every month for those few years that you have.
it and then afterwards you can decide whether you want to buy it or not and if you don't want to buy it then you can return it and lease a new vehicle and then update it and get a vehicle that's even newer and some people just keep doing this.
They never actually buy the vehicle they just...
keep leasing new vehicles and they always drive new cars.
So that's pretty cool, but of course the downside is that it's not your car unless you decide to buy it afterwards.
So yeah you have it for a few years, but it's not actually yours.
You don't actually own it.
So you have to...
consider whether that's the right option or not.
Do you want to own your car or do you want to kind of rent a new car, so to say, to lease it and just be able to drive this new car for a few years.
So that's another option that some people might choose.
So those are some different ways you can buy a car.
either used or new from a private seller, a dealership, lease it, those are some different options.
And besides just the method or the way that you're gonna pay for your car, of course there are tons of other things that you need to consider.
Right, there are some really important things that you need to look at.
to make a good decision about which vehicle to buy and especially if it's a used car.
So, one of the first things that comes to mind is the mileage.
This refers to how many miles it's been driven.
In other countries it will be kilometers, of course.
But in the US this is called the mileage.
If you buy a used car that has a lot of miles on it, that might be risky because that car has been driven for a long time.
And it's probably going to need more maintenance than a car that only has a few miles on it.
So that's one of the criteria that I'm really...
when they speak fast, then make sure to sign up for my membership to get my listening practice seminars.
And if you become a family member, then you'll also get my advanced podcast episodes in which I speak fast.
And of course, you can also sign up for my US conversations podcast if you want my podcast in which I talk to other English speakers about different topics.
paying attention to because I'm looking to buy a used car, not a new one.
And another thing that you want to consider is the history of the vehicle.
So has it had accidents before?
And if it has had many accidents, you might think twice about buying it because you don't know if.
those accidents caused certain damage that can maybe come back to haunt you in the future.
When we say that something comes back to haunt you, we're saying that it has negative effects for you in the future.
Maybe not right now, but in the future, the negative effects will appear.
So that's...
one thing and maybe it has a salvage title in the US, the phrase salvage title refers to the fact that this vehicle suffered significant damage like it was in a huge accident and then the insurance company deemed it too expensive to fix when we deen something to be something else.
We are judging it to be that thing.
So the insurance company judged This car as being too damaged to messed up to fix so the insurance company Deemed that the car was too expensive to fix so they didn't even bother doing that and Maybe the owner of the car still wanted to fix
it.
So they fixed it themselves or some other way and now they're selling it again.
But this car has a salvage title meaning that at some point it had really significant damage and it was fixed after that maybe.
But you need to be aware of that because it might not be as...
safe as it should be now because of that damage.
So that's definitely something that you want to consider, right, if the car has a salvage title.
And you also want to consider if the car was used just for personal use, just normal person driving it or was it used by a company before?
Or was it a rental car before?
You'll see a lot of rental cars that used to be rental cars and now they're for sale.
And a lot of people don't like buying rental cars because they think that they weren't treated very well.
Because a bunch of random people drove that car and who knows?
what they did to it.
So that's another thing to consider.
And then the year of the car itself, if it's an older car in terms of the year, that's going to have some effects, right?
Older cars tend to need more maintenance than newer cars and they were built differently.
They have different features.
So...
Of course, you'll want to consider that as well.
And then there are some other preferences you might have for your car, aesthetic preferences, like how they look, for example, or just how they feel, the space, you'll want to consider the different trim levels of the car.
This means that the same model...
one model of a car can have different levels with different features.
So if you buy the base trim level of a car it's just gonna have the basic features that that car has.
But if you buy a higher trim level then you get other features.
Maybe you get a wireless phone.
and I provide the transcript and the definitions of key words and phrases that we use.
The link to both of those are down below in the episode description.
So go down and check that out if you're interested and you have the transcript for this episode down below for free as well.
And as always, please share this podcast with anyone else you know who's learned English.
charger or you get a built-in navigation system or whatever it might be.
But different trim levels have different features.
So you have to look at that as well.
The color, that's a big one for people.
They only want certain colors or they might not like certain colors and then maybe you need your car to have top 10.
when your car toes something else this means that it pulls that thing behind it.
So if you use a truck to tow a boat that means that you have this boat with wheels behind the truck and your truck is pulling the boat behind it.
It's towing this boat.
So maybe...
you want a car with towing capacity, maybe you want a certain type of engine, transmission, a bunch of different things, of course.
So these are all things you need to take into consideration before you buy something.
So I think that's all I wanted to talk about today.
Hopefully you learned some new words and hopefully you learned a little bit about some of the different.
options that we have in the US in terms of buying a vehicle.
And I hope this episode was good practice for your listening.
Remember to sign up for my membership if you want my specialized training to help you understand native speakers when they speak fast.
The link is down below the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you want my US Conversations Podcast, the link is down below the episode description.
is also down below and you'll really like that podcast if you want to learn a lot about the US, the different states here and if you want to practice with two people talking instead of just one.
So that link is also down below that's patreon.com slash US conversations and you have the transcript for this episode down there as well.
And please give it a 5 star rating and write a review on Spotify or Apple Podcasts.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about buying a car.
First, I'll just mention really briefly my current situation.
And then I'll talk.
general.
So I want a bigger vehicle, one that has three rows, a row refers to a line of something, in this case a line of seats, right?
So some cars have two rows, some cars have three rows, and some cars only have one row.
I'm looking for a three row SUV, so kind of...
bigger car and the one that I'm considering actually seats eight people.
This means that eight people can fit in this car.
So that's a lot of seats and I like that.
So I'm looking at this car and we'll see what happens.
There are some different options that I need to consider
and I haven't decided yet on how exactly I'm gonna go about buying this car where I'm gonna buy it from but I'm looking right now.
But let's pretend that you're in my position and you're in the US you want to buy a car what are your options and what does this process
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 136 of the Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
I hope you're all doing well.
I hope your year is starting off well and that you're motivated to keep on practicing your English.
In today's episode, we're going to talk about...
conversation, we're going to talk about how to have good conversations in your own language and I'll also talk about some tips about how you can have better conversations in English when you're speaking this foreign language.
So I think this will be really interesting and relevant to all of you because I think all of us.
you talk the whole time about yourself, right?
People prefer to have the chance to discuss their thoughts, their opinions, their story, and they want to feel like they're getting the chance to talk and talk about themselves, right?
So if you ask a lot of questions, if you ask good questions, this will...
definitely help you.
And in my experience as a teacher, the number one reason why I can have so many conversations and have successful conversations and everyone feels good about the conversation is usually because of my ability to ask questions because I'm constantly getting beat.
other person to talk.
If I stopped asking questions, then the other person would be put in a position where they have to ask me a question or they have to develop a new train of thought or whatever, and that's giving them the work.
By the way, when we say a train of thought, your train of thought
We're talking about the way that your thoughts are developing, the direction that they're going in.
So in this case, I'm saying that I don't want them to have to really make a lot of effort to develop their train of thought and ask me questions, especially if they're a student and I'm a teacher.
It's great when they know how to ask questions as well, but in general most people don't really have this skill.
I've had tons of experience talking to different people and most people are not great at this.
So if you do this well then you will have more successful conversations and you'll make it easier for the other.
person.
And similar to this tip is my next tip, which is to listen.
So you ask questions and then you actually listen.
You listen to what the other person is saying and you actually care about what they're saying.
Okay.
People can tell if you're listening.
Most people can get a ceiling about...
whether or not you're actually listening to them or if you're thinking about something else while they're speaking.
So actually care about what the other person saying and listen to them and don't just be anxious for your turn to speak.
I'm sure you've had this situation before where you're talking to someone and it feels like they're just waiting.
for you to finish what you're saying so that they can talk because they want to share their idea.
And all of us do this.
This is natural for all of us.
I'm not saying that you should never do this because we all have this tendency.
We all want to share our thoughts.
And so we wait for our turn to talk.
Yes, we do that.
But don't be too...
anxious to do that.
When you're too anxious to do that, it shows the other person can tell that you're just waiting for them to finish or you're trying to interrupt them or something like that.
And that's not good.
We don't want to make the other person feel like they can't complete their thoughts because we want to talk.
So actually listen, actually care.
about what the other person is saying and that will make the other person feel cared about and it will make them feel like they're having a good conversation when you listen to them.
Another tip that I have for you is to practice with your body language.
What is body language?
This refers to any non-verbal things that you do.
want to be better conversationalists in our own language and of course as language learners we want to get better at speaking to people and having a conversation in our foreign language that we're learning so I'm sure you'll like this topic and before we start remember that if you need my help to understand native speakers when they speak fast then make sure
communicate something to another person.
And when I say nonverbal, I'm saying something besides just the words that you say.
So we communicate with our words, but we also communicate with things besides our words.
It could be with your tone of voice if you have a certain tone that can communicate something.
It can be the way that you use your body or your position, how you're positioned, or it could be whether you're smiling or nodding those types of things.
The word nod means that you move your head up and down to say yes to someone.
So if someone asks you if you're okay and you nod...
This means that you're moving your head up and down to say yes.
So nodding is a type of body language and agreeing while the other person is talking maybe you go yeah while they're speaking.
For example that could be something that communicates a message to the other person.
At your listening to them you're do you know?
engaged in what they're saying, right?
So all of these things are important.
However, I will say that you want to also make sure that you're reading the other person and based on their cultural background or maybe their personality, it's good to adjust your body language accordingly.
And I say accordingly what I'm saying is...
according to this situation in an appropriate way given that situation.
So you want to adjust your body language accordingly because some people will respond better to certain body language and some people will respond worse.
So some people might not like when you agree and kind of interrupt them a little bit.
When you say, yeah, yeah, while they're talking, some people might not like for you to do that really frequently while they're speaking.
However, other people might expect that from you.
Right?
They might even ask you, you know?
You understand?
You get it.
Just to make sure that you're agreeing and understanding them.
So if you...
give them the proper body language cues, then they'll see that you're listening.
By the way, the word Q refers to some signal that communicates a message to someone.
So a body language Q would be some movement or something that you do that communicates a message to the other person.
So you.
just be aware that people respond differently to different body language, but that's another important thing to incorporate into your conversations.
Another one, another tip that I have is to practice with your segues and transitions.
A segway is a transition between one thing and another.
in this context of conversations, it would be a natural way to transition between topics.
So this tip isn't absolutely necessary.
You don't always have to have good segues and transitions between topics.
However, it does make the conversation flow better.
If you are someone that can naturally...
transition between different topics and make the conversation seem like it's flowing naturally and make sure that you don't have really abrupt transitions.
Then the conversation feels better.
By the way the word abrupt means something that just happens all of a sudden that is not very pleasant.
to join my membership so you can get my specialized listening training.
And specifically if you become a family member, you'll get my advanced podcast episodes where I speak at New York and New Orleans speed.
And if you feel ready, then make sure to sign up for my US Conversations podcast as well so that you can practice with real conversations, me speaking with other people from around the country.
isn't usually, it's not smooth.
It's a transition in this case that is not smooth and that does not flow well.
So if you're talking to someone about their job and then you run out of things to say or questions to ask and then you just suddenly change topics and say what do you do for fun?
It can seem a little bit abrupt.
if the other person isn't expecting that, and it's okay.
Like I said, this isn't absolutely necessary, but it helps if you can make the transition smoother.
Instead of just saying, what do you do for fun?
You can say something like, okay, and when you're not working, what do you like to do in your free time?
So you see how that transition.
included the previous topic.
We were talking about work and then I used that to it segway into the next topic when you're not working what do you like to do in your free time.
You see how that transition was very smooth.
Again you're not always going to be able to do this and this is definitely a skill that you have to develop over time.
However if you have more of these...
natural transitions, the conversation will feel better.
And one other tip that's very similar to the last one is to try to avoid awkward silences, meaning you don't want to have these moments where both of you are silent and you don't know what to say and both people are waiting for the other person to say something.
That can be uncomfortable and it can make the
conversation feel like it's not flowing well.
So this is something that's also really hard to always get right.
You're gonna have to practice with this and it's gonna take a lot of experience and time to develop this skill but I think it's worth it to try to develop this ability to make sure there aren't any.
awkward silences or that there are only a few of them in your conversation.
And a way you can do this is to get better at asking questions.
So asking follow-up questions.
So when you ask one question person finishes talking, you don't want to just stay silent there.
You probably want to ask a follow-up question.
Right another question To go into more detail or to ask them something related to what they just said and it helps the conversation to continue to flow without uncomfortable silences in there and If you ask a question it also gives you a little time to think of your next question or your next transition etc.
You don't want to think
too much about this because you want to listen to the other person, of course.
But you can buy yourself a little bit of time with a question to think of your ex-transition so that when the other person stops talking, then you can be ready to transition and ask a different question or talk about something else or whatever.
So...
If you can not have these awkward silences, that will really help the conversation feel better.
Alright, now let's talk about having better conversations in English when this isn't your first language.
Number one, you have to realize this.
Understanding is much, much more important than speaking.
I've said this many times before, but it's worth repeating.
your ability to speak well is not nearly as important as your ability to understand the other person.
When I'm talking to a student, I don't really care how well they speak.
That's not a big deal for me.
However, I do care about how much they can understand when I'm speaking because if they can't understand you well...
So if you're interested in either of those then the links are in the description below this episode So go down and click on those if you want to sign up and if you like this podcast Please share it and give it a five-star rating and writer review.
All right.
Let's get started Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time Okay, let's talk
then the conversation just doesn't go well.
I have to repeat a ton of things.
I have to look up translations sometimes.
I have to think of different ways to say things.
I have to say things really slowly or spell them for the person and it's just not smooth at all.
Okay so if you're talking to someone who's
not an English teacher, it would be even worse, right?
That person does not have a lot of experience changing the way that they speak to help someone else understand them better.
So they're probably not going to be very patient in that situation.
That's why I say that understanding is much more important than speaking.
So number one, in order to have a good
conversation in English you have to be able to understand.
Don't worry as much about the speaking.
Okay, first be concerned with actually being able to understand people, okay?
And when you don't understand someone, because that will happen sometimes, even if you have a good level of listening, when you don't understand the native speaker when they're talking to you, make sure.
that you apologize and you ask politely for them to repeat it.
Don't say repeat please.
Don't ever say that.
Right, first apologize, say, I'm sorry.
And then ask them.
Don't command them.
Say, could you say that one more time or could you repeat that?
Something like that in a nice way.
You apologize, meaning you accept.
to responsibility and then ask them to repeat.
In that case, they don't feel bad.
They don't feel offended.
If you just say, say that again more slowly or repeat that, they're not going to feel good.
They're probably going to have a bad reaction if you command them to do something.
Okay, so apologize, ask lightly for them to repeat it, and poke fun
at your English sometimes.
When I say, hook fun, act something, I'm saying that you joke a little bit about something.
Just maybe laugh a little about the fact that you couldn't understand something or whatever.
Don't make it awkward and don't overly denigrate your English.
Thor'd denigrate means to unfairly criticize.
something.
Don't denigrate your English and say, my English sucks.
Sorry, my English is terrible.
People don't like that.
Okay, however, you can poke fun at your English and just lightly joke about the fact that you made a mistake or whatever laugh a little bit.
Don't make it really serious or negative.
Make it funny because if you can...
acknowledge the fact that you made a mistake or that didn't understand something or whatever.
It's not uncomfortable for the other person because you're acknowledging it.
You're laughing so the other person will feel like they can also laugh and they're not offended you or whatever.
So have a smile laugh when you make a mistake that's exposed.
or things like that, right?
Don't act really frustrated or ashamed of your English.
No one likes that.
Okay, just have fun with it.
Poke fun at your English, but don't denigrate it.
Okay?
And don't be overly focused on accuracy.
Okay?
Sometimes I have students that focus on every word that they're saying and the conversation is really slow.
uncomfortable or boring because they don't want to say things naturally.
They don't want to just talk and accept that they're probably going to be making some mistakes.
They focus on the structure of every sentence that they say and they speak really slowly and this is not fun for the other person.
So don't focus on accuracy.
Just
about having good conversations.
First of all, let's start with having conversations in your own language.
So just being a good conversationalist in general.
Let's go over some tips.
These are things that I have noticed and that I've tried to develop over the years, especially as an English speaker.
to speak naturally and understand that native speakers don't really care that much about mistakes that you make as long as they can understand you well.
So if you're understandable and you make mistakes, the other person is not just going to focus on your mistakes, they're going to be engaged in the conversation.
They're going to be thinking about the actual topic that you're talking about.
talking about.
They're not going to focus on the grammar errors because the other person isn't thinking about the language.
They're thinking about the topic.
You are probably thinking a little bit about the language because you're speaking a foreign language, but the other person isn't concerned with that.
They want to talk about the topic and focus on what you're discussing.
So need.
to speakers don't really care about your mistakes as long as they can understand you, and more importantly, as long as you can understand that.
Again, that's the most important thing.
And then, besides that, just focus on speaking naturally.
It's better to speak a little more fluently than to speak a little bit more accurately.
The native speaker will...
normally prefer to hear you speak more naturally and normally with a few more mistakes, then to have to be really patient with you while you stop and slow down and correct yourself and think about all the words that you're saying before you say them, that's much less pleasant.
So don't do that, focus more on your fluency and of course.
Try to be accurate, but don't focus on that too much.
Okay, because that can ruin the conversation as well.
Alright, those were my tips.
I hope that you found these tips useful, and I hope that you can incorporate them into your own conversations, whether it be in your own language or in English, and hopefully these can help you.
And remember that.
If you want my help understanding native speakers, make sure to join my membership so you can get my listening practice seminars where I show you the different patterns that are hard for you to understand and I help you understand them.
So if you're interested in that, the link is down below in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you feel ready to practice with real conversations,
where multiple people are speaking to each other.
Then you can sign up for my US Conversations podcast.
The link is also down below in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash US Conversations.
And if you like this podcast, please share it with anyone else you know who's learning English.
Give it a five-star rating and write a review.
Alright, thank you for listening to this episode.
And I'll talk to you on the next episode.
teacher because I've talked to many people, hundreds and hundreds of different people from all over the world for thousands of hours.
I constantly have conversations with different people from different backgrounds, different cultures, different personalities, etc.
So this really trains you to become...
a good conversationalist because if you're in my position you need to talk to tons of different people and manage conversations well navigate the conversation.
This is really important if you do something similar to what I do.
So I'm gonna talk from experience here and hopefully these tips are useful for
So the first tip I have, one of the most important things when it comes to having a good conversation, is to ask questions.
Okay, it's really simple.
If you know how to ask questions and ask good questions, then your conversations will usually go pretty well.
Why is that?
Well, it's because in general...
people like talking about themselves.
So when you ask someone a question about them, then they have the chance to talk about themselves.
People really like that.
So when you ask questions, you put the focus on the other person and you allow them to talk and this makes them feel better, then is you.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 138 of the Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
I want to encourage you and motivate you to keep on practicing with your English listening and just know that you are improving maybe slowly, but...
you're including if you're practicing.
So, great job.
I want to congratulate you on being here today and listening and practicing your English.
Today, in this episode, I'm going to talk about the topic of deep thinking, thinking deeply.
The reason why I chose this topic is because I was in.
So when I say that it sparks a sense of curiosity, I'm saying that it causes you to be curious.
And being curious is often usually a good thing, right?
We want to know more, explore, discover, etc.
That's part of being human.
Right?
So I think that thinking deeply helps to highlight this part of ourselves as humans.
So that's really cool.
Another reason why it's important to try to think more deeply about things is that you can correct and refine your own ideas.
The word refine refers to improving something.
little by little, maybe correcting small deficiencies in something.
You're perfecting it.
So you can refine your ideas or you can simply correct ideas that you had before that were wrong maybe or that weren't as accurate.
as they could have been.
So you can correct and refine your own ideas and reconsider things.
You can revisit old ideas or opinions or whatever and you can change them if you need to.
And this is something that many people struggle with.
Many people struggle with.
correcting themselves when they have some idea that is challenged and then there's a contradiction there, but they just maintain their old idea.
Even though they are presented with something new that makes them reconsider if they're not willing to think a little bit.
deeper and examine their own thoughts, then they might just maintain all of the ideas that they always had and they don't change anything for the better.
So we don't want to be like that.
We want to be able to reconsider things and correct and refine our ideas, our thoughts, and to be able to see all of the ideas that they always had and they don't change anything for the better.
etc.
So that's another important thing.
And another reason why it's important to think deeply is because it can help you make better decisions in life.
You can actually start to understand causes and effects, right, when you actually think deeply about certain actions or behaviors.
or choices, you can start to predict the consequences before they happen, because you actually think deeply about that thing.
You don't just do it without thinking.
You reconsider the thing.
You try to explore the causes and facts, the pros and cons.
and cons, you try to discover the why, and that can help you make better choices and have more satisfactory consequences or benefits from the decisions that you make.
So that's another one.
One other reason why you should think more deeply about things is because it makes
you more creative and more interesting.
It's more interesting to talk to people that are deep thinkers.
Then it is to talk to people who don't really think very deeply and their thoughts are just shallow or superficial.
So that's another reason.
And how do we become deeper thinkers?
What are...
inspired by my last advanced episode that I recorded.
I think that episode will be released in February for all of you listening time family members and VIPs.
So it probably won't be released until after this normal episode.
But I recorded an advanced episode about solitude, about being alone.
some ways we can expand our capacity for thinking and start to practice deep thinking in our daily lives and get those benefits.
Well, I wrote down a few tips here.
The first one is to have a healthy amount of skepticism.
What is skepticism?
Well, this simply means that you don't just believe everything that you're told or everything that you hear or read.
You question what you're told or what you're taught and notice that I said a healthy amount of skepticism.
Of course, you don't want to go overboard here and just not believe.
anything that anyone tells you at any point.
By the way, the phrase go overboard means that you go to an unhealthy extreme.
You're taking it too far, right?
So you don't want to go overboard.
You don't want to just say that everything that everyone teaches you is alive.
A lot of...
things are lies.
A lot of things are the of the examant further and you can maybe develop a better idea upon further examination.
But of course not everything is a lie.
Not everything needs to be rejected when you hear someone say it.
But...
It's important to have a healthy amount of skepticism because many people don't have this and when they're told something, they automatically believe it.
Or when they hear about something, they don't actually try to go further and understand but why?
They just hear...
about that thing and then they just repeated to other people and That's not a characteristic of a deep thinker.
So you want to be able to Hear things or learn things and then research them for yourself Actually learn to do your own research learn to learn things
on your own and learn to develop maybe a more complete perspective regarding different things.
So you don't just want to read a news headline and then think that you know all about that topic or that event.
By the way, the word headline refers to
the title of some article, some news article.
So many people, probably most people, will read a lot of news headlines, just the title of an article, and then they just repeat that, and tell other people about it, but they don't actually read the article, and they definitely don't
read the article and then do further research to try to confirm or maybe add to their knowledge of that thing.
So most people don't do that.
They just read the headlight and then they think they know what happened or what's going on about whatever subject.
So, you don't want to do that.
You want to be
the thinkers and actually take the time to learn, read, do all that to research certain things.
And one last point about this is that deep thinkers know that everyone has an agenda in YouTube.
Me too.
That's not necessarily a problem, but it's important to understand this.
Everyone has an agenda.
And it got me thinking about thinking when I was recording that episode.
One of the things that I was thinking about is about how when I'm in solitude, when I'm alone, I can often think deeply and think about things in a more profound way, not just
agenda, everyone has a reason for doing or saying certain things and they want to convince you of certain things.
Everyone has an agenda and that's not a problem but it's important to understand that so that we can be more objective and we can do more research on our own.
and not let other people's agendas interfere with that.
So all of this will help you have a healthy amount of skepticism.
And another tip that I have is that you shouldn't force yourself to have an opinion about everything.
So nowadays I think that it's expected of you to have...
an opinion about everything.
If someone says, what do you think about blah blah blah?
They're not expecting you to say, I don't have an opinion.
They don't normally accept that answer.
They might even get frustrated with you and say something like, how is it possible that you don't care about this?
Or how is it?
possible that you don't have an opinion about that because people expect you to have an opinion about everything.
But in my opinion, that's not good because if you don't know about something, if you've never researched something before, or if you don't have any interest in a certain subject, you shouldn't.
really have an opinion about it because you just simply don't care enough or haven't learned enough to have your own opinion and most people nowadays they will force themselves to have an opinion about everything even if they really don't they'll try to force themselves to have one and
When they do that, they're simply adopting another person's opinion.
You're just adopting the quote unquote right opinion that you think you're supposed to have.
So that's not a characteristic of a deep thinker.
A deep thinker is able to acknowledge when they simply don't know about something or
don't have an interest in something and haven't learned about it and they don't need to force themselves to have an opinion just to please other people.
So be content with not always having an opinion about something so that you don't just rush into opinions and adopt other people's thinking.
It's not what a deep thinker does.
And another tip that I have that will help you become a deeper thinker is to read.
I talk a lot about reading.
I love reading.
I think it's a really beneficial activity.
And one of the benefits is that it helps you think more deeply in my opinion.
You read, you see other people's.
thoughts you can compare your own ideas to the ideas presented to you in that book.
And of course, you learn about a lot of different things even if you read fiction.
Like me, I read mostly fiction.
However, I learn a ton when I read even though it's not a nonfiction book.
It's not meant to teach me.
I still learn a lot.
And when you read a lot, you start to make connections between different ideas, different things, in different books.
You start to compare things.
You can see how this starts to get your brain moving.
Right, when you read one book.
superficial way.
And I think that it's important to think deeply in general about different things.
And so I want to talk about that today.
It's kind of a deep topic, but I'm sure you'll like it.
And before we start, remember that if you want to practice with my advanced episodes, where I speak at novel speed, then make sure to sign up.
book, and you say, oh, that reminds me of something I read in this other book.
Or, oh, that's different from what this other author said, etc.
You start to question things, compare things, you start to shape your own opinions about things.
And of course, a lot of that is related to nonfiction, right?
But...
Like I said, even with fiction, this happens.
So for example, recently I've been reading a lot of books from the 1800s, a lot of novels from that century, just for pleasure, just for fun, because I really like reading books that we might consider classic.
And when I read these books from the 1800s,
My mind starts to connect different things from the different books, the different stories.
I start to notice things about the society that is described in these different books and kind of subconsciously I started to compare society then to society.
now and to learn a lot about how things used to be, what used to be acceptable and not acceptable.
And I've also seen a lot of my own faults reflected in these different characters, in these stories.
By the way, the word fault refers to something...
wrong.
Something not good.
So my faults refers to the things about me that aren't good.
So I even see my own faults reflected in some of these characters and it makes me think more deeply about my own personality, my own behavior and...
And this is all from reading fiction for pleasure.
I'm not even trying to learn things.
I'm just reading for pleasure and reading a lot helps me to think more deeply about different things.
And this activity really sparks these processes in your brain.
And it's something that I really...
like about reading.
So that's another tip that I have.
And one last tip that I want to give is to reduce the noise around you.
So what do I mean?
Well allow yourself to be in silence sometimes.
I know for many people this is really hard but it's beneficial to be able to be in silence.
for certain periods of time throughout your day, throughout your week.
And for example, one thing I like to do is to drive in silence.
So if I'm alone in my car, I might just not have any music or podcast or anything playing and just allow my...
myself to be silent in the car and allow myself to think.
And when you reduce this noise, that we constantly hear all around us, you can actually focus on your thoughts and focus on different ideas and develop different ideas.
Another thing that I do is I take walks by myself.
I love taking walks and many times when I take walks I listen to podcasts or audiobooks.
By the way I pretty much only listen to podcasts in other languages.
It's for language learning not for pleasure in my own language.
So I often listen to podcasts for language learning or listen to my audiobooks.
to become a listening time family member.
The link is down below in the episode description.
And if you feel ready to start practicing with conversations where I speak to other native speakers from different parts of the US, then make sure to sign up for my US Conversations podcast.
That link is also down below in the description.
And of course, if you
However, sometimes I like to walk by myself with nothing else.
No headphones in not listening to anything.
And I find that my brain starts thinking.
And sometimes I have some deep thoughts.
And I walk outside by myself with no music.
no podcasts, no audiobooks or anything like that.
And it's kind of like when you take a shower and you have a lot of good ideas while you're showering.
I'm sure some of you know what I'm talking about.
I also experience this when I walk in silence outside in nature or just on the street.
I also have that same experience.
So that's really cool.
And then of course, one last point about this tip is you should reduce the amounts of social media you consume.
Because when you consume social media, you're only consuming other people's ideas and opinions.
And yes, this can be good, of course.
But if you do it too much, then...
You don't really think a lot for yourself.
You're just consuming things from other people and not really stimulating your own brain to think deeply about different topics.
Social media tends to have that effect on us where it's kind of like just watching Netflix.
You're not really stimulating your brain in a meaningful way.
So I've mentioned this before.
Many of you might not agree with me, but I think that it's important to reduce the amount of time that you spend on social media that will also help your thought processes and you might find more time to think deeply about things.
Alright, that's it for today.
I hope this episode was interesting for you.
Remember that if you feel ready to practice...
native English at normal speed, then make sure to become a listening time family member so that you can get my advanced episodes where I speak at normal speed.
And if you want to practice with conversations between two native speakers, then make sure to sign up for my US Conversations podcast.
You'll really enjoy that.
It's a lot of fun.
I talk to people from all of them.
the country about different topics and of course I provide the transcript for you with the definitions of keywords and phrases as well.
So the links for those are down below in the episode description and if you like this podcast please share it and please give it a five-star rating, Spotify or Apple podcasts and writer review.
All right thank you for listening to this episode and I'll talk to you.
the transcripts for this episode, that's also down below as well.
And if you like this podcast, then please share it with anyone else you know who might find it useful.
And please give it a five star rating and writer review.
All right, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about deep thing.
So first of all, why is it important to be a deep thinker?
Why is it important to practice thinking deeply about different things?
Well I think there are many reasons.
One of them is that when you start to think more deeply about things, you understand more.
And you don't just understand.
understand the what?
You start to understand the why.
I think you get my point.
You don't just know some information and say this information is correct.
You might figure out why that information is correct or why something is the way it is.
And I think that is...
discovering the Y is very useful.
It's very beneficial for us, for our brains.
It sparks a certain curiosity in English.
When we say that something sparks something else, we're saying that it causes that other thing to happen.
It triggers that other thing.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and your Listening Tab episode 137 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing well with your English learning.
I hope that these episodes have helped you improve your listening, and I hope you can find time in your daily life to do a little bit of listening practice.
everyday or almost everyday.
I know that it can be hard to always stick to your plan to practice English every day.
I know it takes discipline but you will see the benefits over time.
And speaking of discipline, this is the topic that I want to talk about in today's episode.
Discipline can mean a few different
for a lot of people, it's not necessary to wake up early.
And I'm not saying that you should wake up early or that it will change your life if you wake up early.
However, I do want to say that waking up early in general is a good practice.
It usually leads to good benefits and it can really help you organize you.
day better or be more productive than you already are, but I know it's not for everyone.
So I'm not saying that, but I want to encourage you to consider it if you're already thinking about it.
If you think it might help you, then try it.
I'm sure you'll see that there are many benefits.
So why is waking up?
early required discipline.
Well, I think it's pretty obvious because there is a very big temptation to go back to sleep when you wake up early, when your alarm goes off.
It's very tempting to just go back to sleep.
By the way, when you say the phrase go off or go off in this context, we're talking
about your alarm ringing.
Your alarm goes off.
It rings.
So there's always the temptation to snooze your alarm.
You know you can press that snooze button which gives you some extra minutes of sleep.
So there's always that option or there's usually that option to go back to sleep.
So it requires discipline.
actually stick with your plan to wake up early and actually do it.
So because of that, waking up early is an activity that will require discipline from you.
And I think it's a great way to train your discipline.
I think that when you start waking up early consistently every day, you start to develop.
this good habit and develop the skill of being disciplined.
So this is something that I've noticed in my life.
I've noticed that because I consistently wake up early, I feel like I've trained myself to have this discipline of not just choosing the easy option of going back to sleep and forcing myself.
to choose the more difficult option, but the one that has more benefits for me.
So, waking up early is a choice, and I think that this act of choosing to wake up early every day despite the temptation to go back to sleep is a good thing for our character.
I think it helps us.
prove in our ability to make tough decisions and to delay gratification for the future.
Remember that the phrase to delay gratification means that you don't get the good thing now.
You choose to get an even better thing later.
You're delaying gratification.
So I think that waking up early.
trains your ability to delay gratification and it helps you build discipline.
So that's one example.
Another thing that requires discipline is not eating junk food, not breaking your diet or breaking your healthy eating habits when you don't want to.
Of course, there's all.
is up time and a place for junk food.
I think we all need a little bit of that pleasure, of course.
And so sometimes we should choose to indulge a little bit.
When we say that you indulge, we're saying that you allow yourself to have some pleasure that you wouldn't normally have.
things, there are different usages of this word.
But when I say discipline in this context, I'm talking about self-discipline.
A definition could be the ability to pursue something, maintain something, or improve in some way, while correcting and regulating yourself, despite the temp.
or that is normally over the limit maybe.
So I think that we all need to indulge sometimes when it comes to eating junk food.
However, I'm referring to not eating junk food when you don't want to because you want to maintain your healthy eating habits at that time.
So when you have a
goal you want to eat healthy, you want to follow a certain plan with your diet, then you have to have discipline to not eat junk food.
And this is something that I used to be really bad at and I'm still not very good at this.
However, I'm a little bit better.
than I was in the past.
But in the past I had very little discipline in this area.
When I felt the craving to eat junk food, I always indulged in just eight junk food.
By the way, the word craving refers to an intense desire in the moment for something, usually food.
If I say that I'm craving chocolate right now, this means that I really want chocolate right now.
This is a desire I have.
So you can use it as a verb to crave or a noun, a craving.
So in the past, whenever I had craving, it was very hard to ignore this.
And I usually just ate the junk food.
I was craving.
So over time I've become a little more disciplined in this area.
I think as I've gotten older I'm a little more conscious of the fact that my decisions now in terms of food and my health will have a big effect later on in my life or...
soon.
Maybe it's not that far into the future.
So when you're young, it can be easy to think that you're never going to have health issues and that you can eat whatever you want.
But as you get older, you start to realize that this isn't the case, right?
Our actions have consequences and that includes...
our food, right?
So I've gotten a little bit better at this over time because I'm more conscious of this.
However, it can still be hard for me to be disciplined when it comes to not eating junk food because when we have those cravings, those temptations, it's so easy to just fulfill them and just...
open up the package of cookies, eat it.
So because it's so easy to fall into that trap, for me the best way to not do this is to not have that food at home, to not have the food available to me in my house.
So the way I become more disciplined in this area.
is not buying the junk food when I go grocery shopping.
So that's where I exercise my discipline.
I see the package of cookies.
It looks tempting, but I say, no, I'm not going to buy it.
And then when I'm at home, I don't have the cookies.
So the desire that I have is a lot harder.
to fulfill because I don't have that junk food close to me.
So that's kind of how I help myself in this area.
And another example of when we need to have discipline is when we are saving money.
So I know that for some of you, this might be a very hard thing to do.
You might not have like...
to abandon this.
That's a long definition, but I wanted to give you a sense of what I'm talking about when I say discipline.
So when I say that you want to have discipline in your language learning, I'm talking about being able to learn a language pursue this goal and continue.
custom of saving money and not spending the money that you earn.
So this might be an area in which you need more discipline.
So saving money is the ultimate for the ultimate example of delaying gratification.
Right?
You receive money, you can do anything with that money.
but instead of going out and getting things you want and feeling satisfied because you can buy something You decide to put it away somewhere Save that and just almost forget that you have that money and then hopefully benefit later on in the future because you saved that money This is probably
the best example in our day-to-day lives of delaying gratification and it didn't be really hard.
I definitely understand that.
However, I think that it can also be fun after a while once you get the hang of it.
In English, when we say that you get the hang of something, we're saying that you get a custom to something.
you get used to it and it becomes more natural or comfortable for you.
So after a while, once you get the hang of it, saving money can be fun because you feel good about getting closer to your goal and seeing that amount grow and you know that you are closer to being able to
afford that car that you're saving for or the house or whatever it is.
By the way, the word afford is used to say that you can buy something because you have enough money for it.
So when you see that amount of money grow and you see that you're getting closer to your goal of being able to afford.
something, it's actually very satisfying to see yourself get closer to that goal.
So I think that at the beginning saving money can be hard for people if they don't have this custom.
But once you get the hang of it, it can start to become a lot easier and even fun and satisfying.
So I think that...
If you've never tried this before, it's going to require discipline.
However, it will get easier over time.
At least that's what I think.
And another thing that requires discipline in our lives is finishing our work before our leisure.
The word leisure just refers to your free time that you can use for things that you want to do.
So...
before we have fun, we should try to finish our work, right?
So, you don't want to not finish what you need to do and then go have fun because the whole time you'll be thinking about that work that you didn't do, right?
So, it's good to finish your work before you go have fun or relax or whatever.
And this requires discipline too because it's easy to put off work and to procrastinate on things when we don't really want to do them.
The phrase put off in this context means to postpone something to procrastinate to do it later instead of now.
It's very...
easy to put off things that we don't want to do and just do something else right now.
That's probably our natural tendency.
That's what people do.
So in order to not do that, we have to exercise a little discipline.
We need to make sure that we are finishing our work doing what we need to do.
to make yourself do it even if you don't always feel motivated or you're not in the mood.
You want to continue on this right path and correct yourself and regulate your behavior so that you continue to learn this language.
So that's what I mean when I say discipline.
So I want to tell you.
do.
And then after that, we can enjoy ourselves.
We don't want to procrastinate and then have all of this stress to deal with and all of this work that we're going to have to do later because we didn't do it now.
So that's something that we need discipline in order to not do.
And this is another
form of delaying gratification, not having fun now, so that you can have more fun later.
And I really think that when you don't procrastinate, when you do what you need to do now, and then you relax or have fun, you have a lot more fun and you can relax a lot better, let's say, when you act.
actually do the hard work first.
I think that it will enhance your leisure time if you do it like this.
The word enhance means to improve or increase.
So you can enhance your leisure time and you can enjoy it more if you have the discipline to do your work first.
Okay?
So that's another one.
And one last example I want to talk about, a really relevant one, is learning a language.
So you need a lot of discipline when it comes to learning a language because it's very easy to just stop and just quit, give up, or just put this off until later.
A lot of people want to learn a language.
but they always put it off and say that they'll do it in the future, for example.
Or many people start learning a language and then they stop.
Or they start with a good language learning plan and schedule.
And then they start to get off track and do other things.
And they start being...
has regular with their language learning.
I'm sure a lot of you can identify with this.
Often, when I ask people how long they've been learning English for, they give me a really complicated answer.
They say, well, I learned for a year and then I stopped and then I started learning again and then I stopped taking seriously and then now...
I'm more serious.
They give me a very complicated answer because they haven't been disciplined over time and so they can't just say that they've been learning for three years because they haven't been learning for three years.
They started the first year really well and then they stopped and then they started and then they stopped so they haven't been disciplined.
So of course if we're not disciplined in our language learning, we're not going to see the benefits that we want, right?
We're not going to see the progress that we're hoping for.
We won't be satisfied with our improvement.
So it doesn't take a ton of discipline.
I think it just takes a small amount of discipline to just say...
Okay, every day I need to do at least 20 minutes of listening or 30 minutes of reading or whatever it is that you plan on doing.
It just takes a little bit of discipline to put that in your schedule and say, okay, before I go to bed at night, I'm going to listen to this English podcast
25 minutes.
That's part of my schedule.
Right?
It's not a really big thing, right?
It sounds pretty simple.
And it's not that hard.
It just takes a little discipline.
However, it's very easy to abandon that little discipline.
And it's very easy to get off track.
And so even this small amount of discipline is very important when it comes.
about that today and we'll talk about some different things that require discipline in your life.
So this should be a good and helpful topic for everyone and before we start remember that if you're having trouble understanding native speakers when they speak fast then make sure to join my membership so you can get my specialized listening training so I can help you under...
to language learning.
So that's a big one.
Learning a language is a hard process, it takes a long time, but with discipline you can do it.
Right, that's one of the biggest keys to being a successful language learner is having that amount of discipline that you need to stay on track, practice every day, or almost every day.
And...
to not quit or become really irregular in your practice, etc.
Okay, that's all for today.
I hope you enjoyed this episode and I hope you're motivated to be disciplined in your life and to do things that require discipline and to train yourself in this regard.
Of course, if you need my help to understand native speakers.
If you want more training, if you need more help with this, then make sure to sign up for my membership so you can get my specialized listening training.
The link is down below in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you feel like you're ready to practice with real conversations, then make sure to sign up for my US Conversations podcast.
You'll really like it.
I talked to different people.
from around the country and we talk about a lot of interesting things.
We talk about the different cities and states of the US.
So I think that you'll really like that.
Make sure to go down and sign up if you're interested.
The link is also in the description.
That's patreon.com slash US conversations.
And if you like this podcast, please share it.
Please give it a five star rating and write a review.
understand those difficult sound patterns that you hear when native speakers speak really fast and reduce their speech.
So if you're interested in that, make sure to click on the link in the episode description below this episode.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And also remember to sign up for my US Conversations podcast.
If you feel ready to start practice.
to sing with real conversations between native speakers.
So that should be your ultimate goal to be able to understand multiple people speaking with each other.
So if you need that practice, make sure to sign up for my US Conversations Podcast.
The link is also in the description below this episode.
It's patreon.com slash US Conversations.
And as always, remember to share this podcast with anyone you know who might find it useful.
And please give it a five star rating and writer review.
All right, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about discipline.
I already gave you a definition of what I mean when I say discipline Yes, really.
this context and now I want to talk about some things that require discipline.
What are some areas, some things in life that require some level of discipline?
Well, the first one I want to talk about is waking up early.
So I know that many people hate waking up early and I know that
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 148 of the Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
Today I want to talk about a topic that I've already talked about, but a long time ago, in one of the first episodes.
And I also talked.
a little bit about it in a bonus episode, if I'm not mistaken, and that is the topic of dogs.
I think in the normal episode that I recorded a long time ago, I talked about pets in general, but today I want to talk about dogs, specifically.
And I was trying to think of ideas for this episode.
This dog that is still alive, he was rescued from an area where it's very common for dogs to breed with coyotes.
The word breed when used as a verb like this refers to animals having babies.
So in that area, many coyotes and dogs.
breed and so there are these hybrid dogs that are part dog and part coyote and I can't say for sure but I would guess that this dog that my sister has is part coyote it looks like a coyote it acts like a coyote
sometimes and a coyote dog hybrid expert once told us that he was sure that our dog was part coyote so we assume that he's part coyote so that's pretty interesting and another interesting dog that we had for many years was Australian Shepherd
which are sometimes just called Aussies.
This Aussie was really smart.
She was an extremely intelligent dog and sometimes that was a problem.
She was too intelligent and she was able to do certain things that we didn't think she could do.
And so that...
once in a while was a problem for us.
I remember a couple instances of that.
And the same thing has happened with the coyote dog.
He's really smart and he's also used his intelligence to get into trouble before.
But that Australian shepherd that we had was one of the smartest dogs I've ever eaten.
by the way we can say that you encounter something or someone to say that you have had an experience with that thing.
So that dog we had was one of the smartest that I've ever encountered.
And one other interesting one, another interesting dog that we had was this really small white mutt.
The word mut is kind of a not very nice term to describe a mixed breed dog So it's not pure bread meaning it's two parents weren't of the same breed as we say the same type so this dog was a mut not a very beautiful
mutt, she was really small and what was interesting about her was that she was very portable, I'll say.
Portable means that something can be taken and transported very easily.
So I remember my dad just carrying her on his shoulder.
her almost like a scarf.
He would throw her over his shoulder and walk around the city with her and she would just chill there on his shoulder.
We can use the verb chill like this to mean that someone just hangs out in a peaceful way.
They're not really doing a lot.
Just uh...
sitting there or whatever.
So she would just chill on his shoulder as you would walk around and go different places.
And one time I took her on a stand-up paddle board with me on the water here in San Diego.
I was doing this stand-up paddle sport where you stand on that paddle board
I saw a dog walk behind my window and so that's the topic that came to mind.
So we're going to talk about it today.
And I know a lot of you are dog lovers.
I'm going to give you a spoiler alert.
A spoiler alert is an alert that you give people when you're going to already...
and you go out onto the water.
I did that with this dog with me.
So she was standing on this board with me in the bay on the water.
So that was probably my best memory of her doing that stand-up paddle with her.
So she was very portable.
So it was interesting to take her to some...
different places.
So that's my history with dogs in terms of dogs that I've had.
And I need to say that throughout my childhood and early adulthood, I never liked cats and I always thought that dogs were better.
However, recently in the last five years or so, my opinion has changed a little bit.
I actually appreciate cats a lot more now than I used to.
And I'm allergic to cats.
I can't spend time in an area where there's a cat.
However, when I see that my neighbor has a cat instead of a dog, I actually prefer that more.
Now and let me tell you why so when I lived in Mexico for some years I had to deal with a lot of dogs barking and it's funny I say that because as I mentioned my neighbor's dog was just barking earlier when I was recording I don't think he'll bark anymore now hopefully
But yeah, it's funny that that happened because this is what I dealt with for years in Mexico.
My neighbors' dogs would bark all day long.
I'm exaggerating, of course, but sometimes it seemed like I would just hear barking all day.
No matter where I lived.
It didn't matter which apartment I lived in.
lived in multiple apartments, but there would always be barking dogs.
And when you have a podcast like mine, this can be very frustrating when you want to record and you need silence, but the dog next door won't be quiet.
You can imagine how
I got frustrated when trying to record podcast episodes and I had to wait for the dog to stop barking and sometimes I would wake up really early to record before there was any normies from the dog or anyone else.
So that was always really frustrating for me.
And.
Not only that, but I also lived the last year and a half of my time, Mexico, with a baby boy.
And it was very frustrating, very annoying, when dogs would bark loudly and wake my son up.
I hated that.
I would've...
always get frustrated when that happened because my son was just a baby and needed to sleep but some dog or something would wake him up.
I definitely didn't like that and just in general I would want to enjoy some peace and quiet and just in general these barking dogs with always
interrupt the peace and quiet that we had for short periods of time and then the barking would start and not just barking.
There were motorcycles and car horns and things like that of course but you get my point.
I'm someone that appreciates let's fly it when I'm trying to work.
reveal some important information to them at the very beginning.
And so it might kind of ruin the story because you already know what I'm going to say.
So people say this when they are going to talk about a new movie that they saw recently, they might say, hey, this is a spoiler alert.
So...
or when my son is sleeping and so it was always annoying to have to deal with that.
And there were some other things that made me stop liking dogs as much when I lived in Mexico.
Another thing was that there was dog poop everywhere all over the city on the sidewalk.
It was annoying.
to always have to try to avoid stepping on it and I'm sure a lot of you agree with me that it's not very nice to see that on the ground all over the place so I didn't like that another thing I didn't like was when we would be walking on the sidewalk and suddenly some vicious dog would hook it
head out of the fence of some house and start barking at us and scare us like that.
That happened a lot.
By the way, we can use the phrase, hook your head out.
This means that you stick your head out of some opening.
So these dogs would hook their head out of the fence and bark growl.
at us and it would always scare us when that happened.
That happened to me a lot when living in Mexico.
And I would just get a little bit nervous about my son too.
And now that my son can walk and he's there on the ground when other dogs come up to us, get a little bit nervous and I kind of...
want to protect my son and make sure that he doesn't get bit by a dog because that would be a disaster.
So as you can see there are some different reasons why I stopped liking dogs that much when I was living Mexico and I know that these things are not the dogs fault.
They're the owner's fault.
I know that.
So, don't accuse me of unfairly blaming these dogs.
I know that these are animals.
So I know that the owners are the one responsible for this.
But still, because of this reality, I don't really like dogs that much nowadays.
And I know many of you love dogs.
So don't get mad at me, okay?
This is just my personal preference.
And I know that dogs are fun and friendly, but they're just not for me.
Over the years, I've realized that I prefer not having a dog and I prefer when my neighbors have cats rather than dogs.
simply because of the noise and because it makes it hard for me to work or my son to sleep or whatever.
And I do want to close the episode with some positive words about dogs.
I don't want you all to hate me now that you've realized that I'm not a big dog lover.
I
do want to say that I like certain things about dogs.
For example, I like that dogs are very loyal.
I really admire that trait.
The word trait means characteristic.
I like that dogs are loyal to their owners.
That's cool.
So dogs will just follow their owners everywhere and they won't.
abandoned them hopefully and they will protect their owners.
That's really cool.
And dogs tend to be happy.
They're like happy animals which is nice because when your dog is in a good mood, it puts you in a good mood, right?
So I think that they have a good effect on their owners.
Don't listen if you don't want me to ruin the movie for you and then they'll talk about something in the movie So just a spoiler alert.
I Don't really like dogs that much, but I'll explain myself I know that most of you probably like dogs So you're gonna want to hear my explanation But we'll talk about that soon and
mental health and their mood.
So that's a big advantage of having a dog and dogs are fun.
You can play with them, you can invent games, you can teach them different tricks.
Dogs are fun animals compared to some other pets, let's say.
And I even think it's good to raise them with kids.
It's good to have dogs and kids in the same house.
I think that that's a good thing in most cases.
However, I am not going to do that with my kids.
In the past, my wife and I talked about the possibility of getting a dog if we lived in a house with a backyard and space and a...
that.
However, that was years ago when we talked about that.
Now we both realized that there are more complications that need to be considered.
And as I already mentioned, I'm not a big dog person anymore.
I liked dogs as a kid.
It was nice growing up with dogs, but I...
would prefer not to have one especially because I don't like having the responsibility of taking care of these animals feeding them, taking them out, doing all of the things that you need to do if you want to be a good dog owner.
So because I'm not able to assume that responsibility,
I shouldn't have a dog and I'm sure you would agree with me that a person who isn't capable of being responsible for an animal shouldn't have that animal, right?
That's better for everyone.
So that's pretty much it for today.
I know that a lot of you probably like me less now because you know...
that I don't like dogs that much, but really you and I both know that my problem is more with the dog owners who let all of these things happen that I didn't like.
So dogs are fine, dogs are cool animals, but I prefer not to have dogs barking around me and all that kind of stuff.
Alright, that's it for today.
I hope you enjoyed this episode and if you feel ready to practice with my advanced podcast episodes, make sure to sign up to become a listening time family member.
The link is in the description below this episode.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you want my US Conversations Podcast in which I talked to other English teachers from around...
And if you feel like these episodes have become a little bit easy for you, then make sure to sign up for my advanced podcast episodes.
The link is in the episode description below this episode.
You can click on it to sign up to become a listening time family member and you'll receive my advanced episodes.
And if you want my US Conversations podcast in which I talk to other native speakers from around the country, the link is in the description.
also down below.
And as always, please share this episode, give it a five star rating and writer review.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Alright, let's talk about dogs.
Now that I'm recording this, I can see that this is the perfect episode for today because my...
neighbor's dog is barking.
He just stopped but he might start again and normally I would just edit that out but today since the topic is dogs, if he barks, I'm probably just gonna leave that in and you can just enjoy the background barking as I talk about dogs.
So let me talk
very briefly about my history with dogs.
My family had a lot of dogs when I was growing up.
I think we had a total of seven different dogs.
So I have a lot of history with dogs and I've had some interesting dogs.
One of them, he's not mine, he's my sisters.
but he used to live with us and he's still alive.
He's a pretty interesting dog because we're pretty sure that he's part coyote.
He's half coyote, I think.
The word coyote refers to the animal that kind of looks like a wolf, but it's smaller and lives in desert areas.
So.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 100 of the Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for helping me reach episode 100.
I hope that all of these episodes have been helpful for you.
I hope that you've improved your listening as you've listened to all of these episodes.
And I hope that we can continue on with this podcast for...
long time.
So thank you all for helping me reach this point.
And of course, since this is a special episode, I'm going to do a Q&A type episode, questions and answers episode.
So I took some of your questions that you asked me and I'm going to try to answer them.
I'll answer as many as I can.
I think when I did the previous Q&A, I think that was episode 50.
I only answered.
so that you can read it in English and in Spanish.
So this will be for Spanish speakers, of course.
It won't be for people who speak other languages, but I'll at least have that available for my Spanish speaking audience.
And if you don't speak Spanish, but you just want to read the English part of the book, that's okay too.
But I'll announce that pretty soon, because I'm getting pretty close to finishing with this book.
So I'm excited about that.
So stay tuned for that.
The next question is how do you say things in the moment if you already understand a lot, but you just can't say things fast or you have to think a lot, you don't know what to say.
So this is something that everyone feels, almost everyone feels when they learn how to do it.
Which, first of all, I need to say that...
You want to make sure that you actually understand a lot.
When you say that you understand a lot, I don't know exactly what your level of listening is, but if you don't have a very high level of listening, that's where you want to focus on.
You want to make sure that you can understand like almost everything that you hear.
If you're not at that point yet, then a...
course you're not going to be able to speak as fast as native speakers because you won't have as much in your repertoire as we say.
This is like your collection of weapons and tools.
You won't have as much in there to draw from to actually say whole phrases and words past in the moment.
Right?
We want to
understand things very well and be able to identify those phrases when we cue them again and again and be able to say them naturally not because we've memorized lists of phrases or words or things like that but because you've heard them so many times you understand them you sound very normal for you and and your attention
start to say them just because they feel right.
I talk a lot about that.
You say whole phrases, you say things correctly and naturally when you know that they're correct.
So the first step is to do tons and tons of listening and to make sure your understanding things very well.
Right?
Not just understanding the main point of the sentence, but actually understand.
every single word, every single sound in these sentences.
Make sure that that's your main focus.
I'm not saying that that's the only thing you want to do, but that needs to be your main focus.
And as you start to do your speaking practice, you'll be able to produce those phrases and those words that you have listening to, which you've heard during your listening practice.
So...
That's the first thing I need to say.
Make sure that you actually do understand a lot, like almost everything.
So focus on your listening practice.
And then when you do your conversation practice, don't stress about being correct 100% of the time.
Just allow yourself to speak naturally and notice the gaps.
The word gaps just means holes.
Notice the holes in what you're saying.
If you're not able to say a certain thing, then make a note of that and go find what you're missing, right?
And you can start to feel in those gaps little by little and you'll probably learn a phrase or word afterwards that you didn't know.
Then next time you can try to use that.
when you're speaking.
But this is for when you've already reached a very high level of listening.
So you don't want to just try to fill in the gaps if 60% of what you want to say is missing.
Right?
That's not good.
You want to make sure that you can already say most of what you want to say in normal conversations just from repeating things you've already heard many times.
a few questions.
So I wanted to do something different this time and I wanted to answer as many as I can and so I'll spend less time on each answer and just try to answer as many as possible.
I'm sorry if I don't answer all of your questions because of course I don't have enough time in this podcast to do that but I'm going to answer as many as I can.
Before we start remember that if you want to
And then you fill in gaps with what's left, gaps there left.
So the first step is to focus more and more and more on listening.
I know that that's what I always say, but that's what I believe.
And then you fill in the gaps afterwards when you do your conversation practice.
Alright, I spent a lot of time on that question.
You need to hurry.
The next question is how to speak faster.
using vocabulary that you already have.
So this is similar to the last question.
So speaking faster is not the same thing as speaking correctly.
Okay, so I'm addressing fluency here, not accuracy.
Fluency has to do with saying things at normal speed and not thinking about them beforehand.
So you're only able to do that if you...
already know what you want to say and you know that it's correct and you just produce that phrase, for example.
So in order to do that you have to actually know this vocabulary word very well.
You're not just going to learn it one time from a list of words and then expect to use that in your speech.
No, you'll probably have to hear that word in different contexts.
many different times before you can finally use it at normal speed without thinking.
Alright, many people they try to learn vocabulary actively and then they try to incorporate all of those words into their speech.
But I don't think that that's necessarily the best method.
You want to learn vocabulary through input, through the things that you're listening to and reading and you need to hear them.
in many different contexts, and then eventually they will become natural for you.
You'll be able to say them fast.
If you're speaking and you have trouble using a new vocabulary word that you learned, it's because you don't actually know that word well enough yet.
You need to hear it in more contexts, in more situations, and get more familiar with it.
And then you'll be able to use it now.
actually in your own speech.
Okay?
The next question is how do I feel as an independent creator and was it hard to leave my last job as an employee?
Well, I feel great.
This is what I love doing in terms of work.
I love working on my own.
I don't like relying on other people.
I don't like when I have to depend on others in order to.
accomplished my goals.
I like to do it on my own, so I really like that.
And I've been working independently for many years, for about six and a half years now.
So I haven't had a job as an employee in a long time, and the last time that I left a job, so that was six and a half years ago, it was easy for me.
I didn't feel like it was difficult at all.
I was...
actually very excited to work independently.
And now I'm doing something that has more meaning than what I was doing before.
I'm able to help many more people now than I helped when I was just an employee before.
So that's great that I'm in this situation now where I can grow in my career and I can grow in terms of how many people.
goal I can reach.
So I really like that.
The next question is, when is it hard for me as a native speaker to understand other native speakers like in different forms of entertainment, like music, TV, etc.
So I would say that it's hard for me to understand certain dialects of English when I maybe consume content in those dialects.
So the hardest dialect.
me to understand with the Scottish English.
So that's definitely the one that I have the most trouble understanding.
And I remember watching a documentary or something like that in the past that was made by Scottish people.
And I remember that I needed the subtitles.
I needed the captions at the bottom of the screen to understand.
support me.
If you want to help me reach episode 200 in the future, please consider becoming a listening time member and you'll receive my specialized training, my listening practice seminars.
And if you want my advanced podcast episodes, then become a listening time family member of VIP and you'll receive two new advanced episodes every month.
So if you want that extra content or...
a lot of what they were saying.
Of course, I understood most of what they were saying, but there were big gaps.
There were times when I just didn't know what they were saying, so I needed to read the captions in order to understand.
So that can happen.
I watch movies and TV shows from really hard dialects like that, but that's very rare.
I think the signs Scottish evil.
I don't think that there are other types of dialects that are really hard for me.
I don't think so.
But yeah, that's the hardest one.
And in terms of music, it can be hard to understand the lyrics of what the person is singing regardless of what their dialect is.
So there are many songs where I don't know what they're saying at different points in the song.
as an English learner, it will be hard for you at times to understand different songs in English because it can be hard for us sometimes, depending on how they sing.
A lot of singers sing very clearly and I know exactly what they're saying, but sometimes they don't.
And sometimes it's kind of hard to hear all the words that they're saying.
So I hope that answered your question.
The next one.
is why don't I teach much grammar?
Well, I don't do this because I don't think that it's that important compared to listening practice.
So when you're a very, very beginner, when you're just starting from scratch with some language, yes, grammar is important because it helps you understand the foundation of a language that you're learning and it helps you get a feel for that language.
But once you reach a little bit of a higher level, then grammar is no longer a very important thing compared to listening, let's say.
So I want to focus on what's important, and I'm actually focused on helping people out who already have some knowledge in English.
So I'm not focused on absolute beginners, I'm focused on people that are...
already have some knowledge of English, but they can't understand native speakers.
So that's my target audience.
And so for me, grammar is not that important.
That's why I focus on listening practice because this is what I do when I learn other languages.
So I'm just repeating that with English and helping you guys with it.
The next question is which preposition is to study.
understand really fast and reduced speech.
So it's not necessarily about studying prepositions.
What it is is that you have to start to expect the right sounds.
You have to identify what English really sounds like when native speakers speak fast and to expect these sounds when you hear them say different words and say different phrases.
So if you've never watched
to want to buy listening practice seminars before.
I recommend that you do that.
You can try them out.
And this is exactly what I focus on.
I help you understand these different sounds, the different ways that native speakers shorten their speech.
And I help you identify what all of these things sound like and help you little by little.
identify and expect the correct sounds.
So it's not about studying certain prepositions.
It's about focusing on what native speakers actually sound like when they speak and once you start to expect the right sounds things will get easier for you.
Okay, so like I said if you haven't checked out my listening practice seminars, try them out.
Maybe become a listening time member.
just to try them out and see if you like them.
Okay?
The next question is about learning a third language when it's good to start with that.
What I would say about this is you should probably have reached a pretty good level in your second language before you start your third language.
You don't have to do this.
There are some people that learn two languages at the same time from scratch.
If you just want to help me out and support this podcast, then make sure to join my membership.
The link is in the episode description below the episode at patreon.com slash listening time.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, I'm going to go as fast as I can through as many of these questions.
So it's possible.
However, if you want to make it easier for yourself, I would recommend that you reach at least an intermediate level in your second language and then you start with a third language.
You don't have to reach a very high level.
You just want to reach a level where you feel a little more comfortable in that language.
You're starting to feel a little more comfortable, a little more confident in...
in that language, at knowing that if you don't focus 100% of your effort on it, you're not going to lose everything, right?
However, if you are still a beginner in your second language, and then you start your third language, and then you focus more on the third one, this might be troubled or your second language.
You might forget a lot, and you might feel like you have to start.
from a very low level when you turn to it.
So that's just my opinion about this, but like I said, if you wanna start two, three languages at the same time, for example, from scratch, you can do that as long as you have enough time and dedication for each language.
However, most people don't have this, they have to focus most of their time just on one language.
So that's why I'm saying that it's probably better to reach an intermediate level in your second language and then start with the third one after that.
But you don't have to take that advice.
That's okay.
The next question is about my hope for the future of education.
So I'll address English education here, not education in general.
I hope that in the future in English classes around the world.
world, the focus will be on input, not output.
I hope that students won't be forced to just learn grammar and then produce sentences using that grammar that they learned, and I hope that they aren't forced to talk when they're not ready to talk.
I hope that the focus is on actually just listening and reading interesting content in English and allowing.
students to actually have fun while learning and not forcing them to produce speech at an early stage.
They should be focusing on listening and reading as long as possible and then eventually they'll feel more confident to actually start talking.
So I hope that that's how things are in the future for English classes.
The next question is do I speak French?
I do.
but I have a pretty low level now because I haven't studied French in many months and I haven't focused on it and I haven't done a lot of speaking actually.
I've actually focused almost all of my effort on listening and I still want to reach a higher level of listening before I start speaking more.
So I'm going to go back to French in about a month and I'll do a lot of listening and...
And then eventually we'll start to have more conversations.
But as you probably know by now, I focus almost 100% on listening for a long time when I learn languages and then I start speaking after that.
And I think I had time for one more question.
How do I learn a language from scratch?
Well, I've kind of answered that.
You can probably get that by now.
I first just get a feel for the language just by looking through.
a grammar book, maybe focusing a little bit on grammar, the different structures.
Of course the alphabet, if it's a different alphabet, and I get that very basic understanding of the language, and then I start listening and reading content that's understandable for me, so it has to be slow and understandable, and then eventually I start to move to harder content.
until I can understand content made for native speakers and then I just focus on that for a long time.
And I just listen, listen, listen, listen, and maybe read a little bit.
And then eventually when I feel like I can actually produce speech naturally, then I'll focus on conversation as well while still doing tons of listening.
So in a nutshell.
as I can.
Alright, the first question is do I speak Spanish to my son?
Yes, but that's not the main language that I use when I speak to him.
I try to speak to him in English most of the time and my wife speaks to him in Spanish.
So we do one parent, one language I speak to him in English.
She speaks to him in Spanish.
However, I have the habit of mixing a lot of Spanish into my language.
shell corner in summary.
What I do is I focus a ton of my time on listening of much more than 90% like 98 99% on listening and then eventually I start speaking.
Alright, I think that's all the time I have for today.
I'm going to stop there.
Thank you all for your questions and thank you for helping me reach episode 100.
If you want my specialized training.
or if you want my advanced podcast episodes, make sure to join my membership, join the right tier depending on what benefits you want.
And so the link is in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And I hope that you'll stick with this podcast and keep listening for the next 100 episodes.
And I want to thank you all for your support.
speech and so I often speak to my wife and my son in Spanish but I try not to do this too much because I want him to hear English throughout the day.
The next question is how to sound more British if someone wants to travel there.
So if you're traveling to the UK, you want to sound more British if you want to sound more like the locals.
I would focus mostly on the vocabulary, not on pronunciation.
Okay, so you don't need to change your whole pronunciation just because you're going to travel to one country.
You can try to do that a little bit, but the main thing is to use the vocabulary that they use.
You don't want to have any miscommunications, and so you'll have to use the internet and find those lists of code.
words that are different in American and British English and I would focus on those words and focus on the most common phrases that might be different in the two languages.
So I would use those online lists just to practice with that before going there because I myself as a native American speaker might have trouble if I go to the UK and I don't...
know these words.
So I would focus on the vocabulary, not necessarily the other elements, like the pronunciation.
Okay?
The next question is, do I have any books that I offer for English learners?
Not yet, but very soon actually.
I'm actually working on a book right now, which is a collection of three short stories that are translated into Spanish.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 99 of the Listening Time Podcast.
We're almost at episode 100.
I'm excited for that and I want to thank you all for listening and for helping me reach that milestone.
That's really cool that we're going to hit episode 100 and of course I'm going to do questions and answers.
type episode for that one and I've received a lot of questions from you guys and so I'll be recording that episode pretty soon and I'll choose some of those questions to answer in the next one.
So thank you all for your questions as well.
And remember that if you want my advanced podcast episodes, if you want to practice with real English where I speak fast, then make sure to sign up.
And don't be overly afraid of failure.
I think we shouldn't want to fail, of course, so we shouldn't be happy to fail.
However, we also shouldn't be overly afraid of failure.
We don't want to be terrified that we're not going to succeed when we start something.
Because that will prevent us from actually doing things.
If we're scared to fail.
will probably just not do whatever it is that we planned on doing.
So don't be overly afraid of failure and it's really important to learn from failure.
So failure is going to happen in our lives and we can respond to that failure in different ways and the best way to respond to that failure is to learn from it, just
see what lessons we can take from that failure and how we can do things differently next time.
So that's something that we want to do when we fail.
That's the attitude that we should have when we are facing failure.
We should say, okay, this is a learning opportunity.
That's the attitude that we want to have.
We never want to let failure completely destroy us.
and make us feel like we're bad people or whatever.
We should try to learn from the times we don't succeed and then do things better the next time.
And I want to talk a little more about learning from failure because this is something that I think we hear about a lot how we should learn from failure, get better the next time.
However, I think that...
There is a good amount of research that shows that many people don't actually learn well from most of their failures.
They actually have a type of mental obstacle that is hard for them to overcome in order to learn from their failures sometimes.
And in English, the word overcome refers to getting past some difficulty.
Right?
You are confronted with some problems, some trouble, some difficulty, whatever, and you overcome it.
You're able to succeed in getting past that issue, whatever it is, you overcome that difficulty.
So research shows us that people can have trouble learning lessons from their own failure and sometimes they don't.
really focus on their failures and just want to forget about them or not learn lessons from them sometimes.
And I want to mention one specific experiment, one specific study that was done that demonstrates this.
So in this experiment, researchers had a group of people take a test and mistest their question.
that had two choices.
One of them was right and one of them was wrong for each question.
Okay, so they had a 50% chance of getting each question right.
So the people took this test and then after that they were shown their right and their wrong answers.
So they got to see which ones they got right and which ones they got wrong.
And then
they took the test again.
They took the test a second time and so they had already seen all of their right and wrong answers from the first one.
So it was supposed to be easier the second time and there was also a reward the second time for each time they got the answer right.
So they were given a little bit of money every time they got the answer right on.
the second test.
And what was interesting is that most of the people remembered their correct answers from the first test.
So they were able to remember those and answer them correctly again on the second test.
However, many of the people didn't remember as many of their incorrect answers from the first test.
So they answered those same
up to become a listening time family member or VIP and you'll receive two new advanced episodes every month.
So make sure to sign up for that if you're interested and of course if you want to ask me your questions every week regarding English or language learning then become a listening time VIP and you'll have access to my weekly Q&A sessions where you ask me questions and I answer them.
questions incorrectly again on the second test.
Even though they were shown their results from the first test and they were shown all of the answers that they got right and wrong, regardless of that, they tended to remember their correct answers but not their incorrect answers.
And so this experiment shows us that some people have trouble learning from
failure.
They might tend to focus on the successes that they had and the lessons that they can learn from their success and then they might just forget their failures and try to move on and not really think about them too much.
And that's a shame, I think, because we can learn a lot from the failure and we can do things differently in the future to have more.
success.
So I think that that should be our goal.
And so I want to talk about three specific failures that I've encountered in my life and the lessons I learned from them.
So the first failure I want to talk about is film school.
I think I mentioned in a previous episode that I attended film school when I was 18.
I thought that I wanted to work in.
film industry and make films and that was something that I had as a dream when I was young and a little immature.
I didn't know what exactly I wanted to do and I thought that film sounded interesting.
So I went to film school and I very quickly realized that I didn't like it.
I realized that I didn't like it.
any of the technical aspects of filmmaking and I realized that I didn't like the industry at all.
I didn't like the culture in that industry.
I didn't really like anything about it and that was really disappointing because I had signed up for a one-year course that was very intense and I had to do a lot of
stuff every day during that program.
And so I didn't actually finish the program.
I actually stopped halfway through and dropped out of film school.
In English, when we use the phrasal verb drop out, when you drop out of school or drop out of a program, what we're saying is that you don't finish it.
You actually quit in a way.
And so I...
dropped out of film school and only did half of that year.
And so what did I learn from this failure?
Well one lesson that I learned is that I shouldn't commit to things that I'm not very sure about.
So it's okay to commit to things that you're not 100% sure about, maybe you're 95, 99% whatever.
However...
For me, I hadn't really done my research on the film industry and on what would be required of me to work in this industry.
What the lifestyle is like, I didn't really do my research on that.
And so I was very naive when I entered into this program.
I thought it would be easy, just fun and there.
I would be really good and I would be a natural industry.
And so that was not the case.
And I should have known that beforehand.
I shouldn't have committed to going to this program and trying to become a filmmaker because I didn't really know anything about this.
I committed to this without knowing much.
So that was...
something that I learned is that I shouldn't commit to things that I don't know much about.
I should be much more sure before committing.
And another thing that I learned from this failure is that I shouldn't continue with something if I know for sure that it's wrong, if I know for sure that it's not for me.
So this is something I realized when I was in film school.
in the video format.
So if you're interested in any of that, make sure to click on the link in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash the swimming time.
All right, in today's episode, we're going to talk about failure.
This is a good topic to talk about because we all fail, right?
Nobody's perfect and it's important to know how to deal with failure or how to think.
that this was the wrong choice.
And so I needed to just stop and not be disappointed that I wasn't gonna finish my program.
I should just stop now and not waste my time and move on to the right thing.
So it's okay if you stop something early if you know for sure that it's the wrong thing.
You shouldn't see all like you.
always have to finish everything even if it's wrong.
So here's kind of a simple example of this is that if you're reading a book and you realize that you don't really like this book when you're about a quarter of the way through it you should just stop reading.
You don't have to force yourself to finish the whole book if it's like torture for you.
In English when we say that you're up.
border of the way through something or your halfway through it.
This means that you're a quarter of the way done, half way done.
So if you're a quarter of the way through it and it's really boring for you, don't like it, you don't have to finish it.
You can stop if you want.
And so that's something that I learned from film school.
And another failure that I had is with
my website.
So I used to have a website that's not available now, but I made a big mistake with this website because it wasn't well thought out.
In English, if we say something is well thought out, this means that you have really thought things through before doing that thing.
You've considered all the different aspects of it and you plan it in an
effective way before you do it.
This is something that's well thought out.
So this website was not well thought out.
It had a poor model.
During that time I released $1.7 Rs.
That would expire in a certain amount of time and you had to sign up for the seminars to website and it just wasn't a very...
intuitive model and it wasn't very attractive and I wasn't having a lot of success with it and it was just the wrong thing.
This was not the way I needed to go about my business and then I switched to my membership model after that and now I use a Patreon website to release content every month and this content.
is not expire, you can watch it, whatever you want, it's not going to go away.
By the way, in English, the verb expire means that something goes bad or it goes away after a certain amount of time.
So my content doesn't expire, you can continue to consume it forever as long as you're a member.
And that's a much better model.
People like that a lot better.
better and I'm having a lot more success with that.
And so of course my old website does not exist anymore.
That was a failure.
And I learned that I need to think more about my students, my customers, so to say, and what they want, what they need.
Not what I think is an interesting thing to offer.
I need to think about what my students.
actually want what they're actually looking for.
So that's a lesson that I learned and I learned that when you start something on your own, a business, whatever, there will always be failures along the way and you just need to accept that and expect it and move past those failures overcome those failures.
That acceptance of knowing that you
fail when it comes to starting something on your own, that's something that you should enter into that project with.
You should enter in with that mindset knowing that you're not going to get everything right the first time.
You might have some failures with your website or whatever and that's normal.
So that's important for people that want to start something on their own.
They shouldn't expect to get it right.
about this concept of failure, etc.
So we'll talk about that today and remember that if you need the transcript for this episode that's below the episode in the episode description so click on that if you need it and listen as many times as you need until you can eventually understand everything that I'm saying without using the transcript and if you like this podcast please share it and subscribe to FAIRK KATHRYN
the first time.
There's a lot of trial and error.
That just means that you're going to make mistakes and then learn from those mistakes.
And one other failure I had was that I bought a car last year that had so many problems and I didn't even realize it when I bought the car.
This was a very old used car and I don't know anything about cars and so...
So I just thought that it was a good deal because I was able to negotiate the price down from the original price and I thought I was getting it for a cheap price and that's the only thing that I really considered.
I was able to get this car for cheap and because I don't know anything about cars, I bought a car that I shouldn't have bought and it had many problems.
problems, I had to take it to the mechanic to fix tons of things and I realized that we had to put a lot of money into this car and it ended up being much more expensive than what I had thought and we ended up actually selling this car for less than what we bought it for.
So I ended up losing a lot of money on this car.
It was a terrible...
terrible mistake and it was a mistake that I learned lessons from because I don't want to make this mistake again.
So number one, I learned that I should not make these types of big decisions when I don't have the knowledge to make them.
So I don't know anything about cars, so I shouldn't make a big decision without consulting experts first or at least be.
but know a lot more than I do.
That's something that I need to do before making such a big decision and spending money like this.
And I learned that discounts can still be a waste of money.
You can think that you're getting a discount, but at the end of the day, it's such poor quality that you have to spend more money to repair that thing.
So discounts aren't always a
good deal.
You might actually still lose money.
And one other lesson that I learned is that sometimes it's better to take your losses and move on.
It wouldn't have been good for me to try to wait until I could get a better price for this car or fix it up so that I could sell it for even more money.
Now it was better for me to just sell it for a lower price.
Move on.
and get on with my life because it was causing me so much stress and I just needed to get rid of this car and get some money back and move on with my life because like I mentioned I was so stressed out about this.
So it was better for me to just accept the fact that I was gonna lose money in.
Alright, that's all for today.
I hope this episode was interesting for you.
Remember that if you want my information...
episodes, then make sure to sign up and come out listening time family member.
The link is in the episode description below this episode.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And please share this podcast with anyone else you know who's learning English and help them and help the podcast grow.
All right, I'll talk to you next time on episode 100 of listening time podcasts.
And I'll see you next time on episode 100 of listening time.
send it to other people, other friends, family members that are learning English and help the podcast grow and help them with their English.
And don't forget to give it a five star rating and write a positive review if you can.
That really helps me out as well.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay,
So let's talk about failure.
First of all, it's important to recognize that we all fail.
Nobody is perfect.
And so we're going to make mistakes.
We're going to not succeed sometimes.
And that's completely normal.
And sometimes we can get the impression that we fail much more than other people.
And other people have their lives in order and are achieved.
great things and doing so much with their life or just their day because when we use things like social media we see other people posting the things that they want you to see and those things are usually the positive things.
They're not going to post about all of their failures all the times they didn't succeed.
They're going to post about the things.
that they did that will impress you.
That will look good on social media.
And so, unfortunately, we use these types of apps where only seeing the positives in other people's lives.
And this can make us feel like we have much more negatives or depressing lives than other people because we're comparing the best of those...
people to our normal lives and of course their lives are going to look much better than ours if we make that type of comparison.
So don't be fooled by his social media because other people fail just like you.
Remember that the word fool means to deceive someone.
So if I say don't be fooled, I'm saying don't be deceived.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 139 of The Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing fantastic today and I hope that you're enjoying all of these episodes and that they're helping you practice your English and specifically you're listening and you're capable, capillary, and...
Most of you know that I'm also a language learner.
I love learning languages.
It's something that I do as a hobby in my free time.
And in today's episode, I want to talk about the fact that I'm learning Italian now.
I just started learning Italian less than two weeks ago, actually, at the time of recording this.
So...
And they have no idea where to even start, right?
And a lot of people think that you need a teacher from day one.
You need to go to classes and have teacher teach you the language.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to study on my own.
I'm not going to have any teachers or any classes.
these 100 days and I'm starting from zero and my goal is to reach a level where I can comfortably start to have conversations with native Italian speakers and to start to consume native Italian content.
Of course I don't expect to have really deep
conversations and be able to say tons of different things.
I'm not saying that.
And I don't expect to understand native content very well.
I'm not saying that either.
What I'm saying is after 100 days, I want to be able to start to utilize native resources.
In other words, native speakers to talk to.
and native content to listen to or to read.
So I'm not going to be good at those things, but I want to be able to start using those things.
So with these 100 days, I want to get to the level where I can start to just use the language itself to learn the language.
Just use content and speed.
speakers of that language and no other resource that is specifically made for Italian learns.
Does that make sense?
So that's my goal of what I hope to achieve and I'm going to use this to show other people how to do the same thing.
So I want to be able to show other people.
how they can learn a language from scratch and get to a level where they can start to utilize native content and native speakers.
So that's my goal here.
My goal isn't to do this just for myself.
I'm trying to do it for other people.
I want to be able to provide this helpful learning resource to other people.
who have no idea how to start learning a language.
For all of you, if you're listening to me and you understand me right now, you've already learned a lot of English.
So, this won't necessarily be a resource to tell you how to start learning English, for example, but maybe it could help you start learning another language.
Maybe you have the desire to...
that you Spanish or French or Italian like me or German or whatever.
And so this might be something useful for you if you're starting from scratch learning another language, but I'm also making this for native English speakers who have never learned another language before.
So I hope this will be...
a helpful resource for people in that situation.
And just a couple more notes about this challenge.
I'm not speaking Italian with anyone during these 100 days.
So I'm not having conversations in Italian.
I'm not speaking with a teacher or a tutor in Italian.
I'm not speaking to anyone.
I'm just consuming.
Italian.
I might say some things to myself out loud, of course, but I'm not having a conversation with anyone during these 100 days.
And I mention this because as a lot of you know, I'm someone who emphasizes input more than output in the early stages of learning.
And in the other stages as well.
I...
It's very new for me, but I want to talk about this today because I'm sure that it will interest a lot of you, if not all of you, to hear a little bit about my experience so far and my goals and my reasons for learning Italian.
So I'll talk about all of that today.
stress the fact that we need to consume the language and not necessarily produce it, especially over at the beginning stage.
I'm not saying that you can't and shouldn't speak that language in the early stage.
I'm just saying for me as a language learner, I think that it's more effective to focus on your input on things you're...
listening and reading to get the language inside your head and then when you feel comfortable, when you have a basic foundation in that language, then you can start to focus on output.
And remember that input refers to listening to and reading the language and output refers to speaking or...
writing a language.
So I'm focusing mostly on input here and there's a little bit of output in this first 100 days, this challenge that I'm doing, but it's not having conversations forcing myself to speak.
But there are a few things that could be considered output, but 99%
or so what I'm doing is input during these 100 days.
And I'm also not doing any passive listening during these 100 days.
So normally I would do passive listening.
I love passive listening.
You should do it.
You should multitask.
And if you have the opportunity to put your headphones in and listen to a pod.
past in your target language while you're washing the dishes or while you're doing something else, I think that's great.
However, for this challenge, I'm trying to keep it very specific.
100 days, two hours a day, active practice, just as a way to show other people what you can accomplish with 200 hours of active practice.
Of course, I would encourage anyone who is following my program afterwards to also do passive listening if they can.
But I'm not going to do it just so that I can be very specific with how many hours I studied the fact that these hours were active practice and to see the results.
So I'm going to document my...
whole process.
I'm already doing this.
So every single resource that I use, how I use each resource, the way that I do it, how much time I spend with each activity, each resource every day, I'm documenting everything.
And at the end of this 100-day challenge, I'm going to make a video.
and I'm going to show what I did.
I'm going to show all the things I did, how much time I did them for.
And hopefully, I'll also add part of a conversation that I plan on having with an Italian tutor, just to show that I can understand that Italian tutor.
And I can speak up.
probably include just a short little part of that conversation if I can.
I don't know if I'm definitely gonna do that yet but I like that idea so I'll probably do that and I'll have this video that I can send to people who ask me on learning a language from scratch what should I do so this will be an easy way to show.
them exactly what I think and what I did to learn Italian in 100 days to get to a level where I have a good foundation in the language and I can start to use native speakers and native content to continue on from there.
So that's my reason for doing this.
I want to help other people and I also want to see for myself.
and I'm sure it will be an interesting episode.
And before we get started, remember that you can get my advanced episodes in which I speak fast at normal speed.
If you become a listening time family member, so go down to the episode description and click on the link to sign up.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you want access to my new podcast.
what I can accomplish in 100 days.
I'm very curious.
And I also want to note that this challenge that I'm doing, me learning Italian, this is not going to be the equivalent of an English speaker learning their first foreign language, let's say their learning Spanish for the first time in their life and it's not going to be the equivalent of an English speaker
equivalent of most people, maybe you just learning any given language.
By the way, when we say any given something, we just mean any of that thing, whichever one.
So this challenge, me learning Italian is not going to be equivalent.
I don't want you to think that.
Why am I saying that?
Well...
I've learned other romance languages before.
The romance languages are the ones that come from Latin.
So I speak Spanish.
I speak Portuguese.
Okay.
I was better in the past, but I haven't spoken in a really long time.
So I probably lost it.
And I know a lot of French and these are all...
all languages that are very similar to Italian.
So I'm starting out with a big advantage because I'm very familiar with Italians, sister languages.
So I'm probably going to have better results after these 100 days than someone else will if they just...
learn a language and it's the first time they've learned a language or if they're learning a language that has no relation to their language or if they're just learning a language that has a different alphabet or things like that.
Italian relatively speaking is gonna be a very easy language for me compared to
other languages because of these advantages.
So I don't want to be unfair.
If someone sees my video and thinks that they're going to have the same results as me, that's probably not the case because I've learned these other languages that are really similar to Italian and that's a huge advantage.
But I think that the principles...
of what I'm doing in this challenge are the same.
I think that anyone can apply the same technique and start to gain a good foundation in their target language, even if they don't reach the same level.
I think that with 100 days, two hours a day, using the resources that I'm using or similar ones, they can still make a lot of...
of progress and get a really good start, let's say.
So I want to mention that as well because it would be unfair if I didn't mention that.
So I have a big advantage but these principles still remain the same.
I think that people can still do what I'm going to do.
And I've never done this before.
I've never documented my process learning a language from scratch.
All of my language learning has been completely disorganized.
I have no idea how many hours I've spent learning these different languages.
I didn't plan my language learning before I started learning these languages.
I used different methods, different things.
I started and stopped many times.
This is the first time that I've been learning these languages.
doing something like this.
So I'm really excited to experiment with this, document it well.
And I want to develop and refine my own plan for when I learn other languages from zero, from scratch in the future.
The word refine means to little by little perfect something.
Improve it and keep on making it better.
in which I speak to different Americans from around the country, different English teachers about a lot of different topics and I provide the transcript and the definitions of keywords and phrases that we use.
Then you can also find the link to that in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash US conversations and you have the transcript for this episode.
So I want to do this so that in the future when I learn other languages from scratch, I can follow the same process or improve this process.
That's more likely.
I don't think this is the perfect process.
I think that I'm going to learn what works better, what doesn't work, and I'll probably include that in my video at the end.
There's...
something that I did that I think that other people should spend less time on because it wasn't as good for me.
Then I'll be honest about that and I'll show people how they can adjust this method that I used.
So I think that'll be helpful for me and for other people.
And I might take this challenge beyond 100 days.
I might do another 100 days.
After it, and keep on learning Italian for 200 days and 400 hours, still 2 hours a day.
And then with that second 100 days, obviously I'll be using native content.
I'll use Italian content for Italian speakers and I will focus on consuming as much as possible.
And I'll be using Italian.
to have conversations in Italian.
That would be the second 100 days if I choose to do it.
I'm not sure yet.
I might not.
I might just stop after the first 100 days.
But I'm kind of curious to see what I can achieve in 200 days.
If I start to use native content in the second half during the second 100 days.
100 days.
So I might do that.
I'll update you on that in the future if I decide to do that as well.
And lastly, what are my thoughts so far about this challenge and about learning Italian in general?
Well, let me be honest with you.
I've never been interested in learning Italian.
I think Italian is beautiful.
It's a great language, but it never interested me personally because I didn't...
really have reason to learn it.
I didn't really have motivation to learn it.
There are other languages that I would like to focus on more.
But now that I have started with Italian, I actually like it.
I'm liking it a lot more than I thought I would.
And it's been really fun for me during these first couple weeks.
So I'm glad I chose to do it.
And I chose Italian because I want to show a lot of English speakers who want to learn Spanish.
I want to kind of show them the process that I would use to learn Spanish because there are many people that ask me, oh you speak Spanish, I want to learn Spanish, what do I do?
And I want to simulate that.
as much as possible about what I would do to learn Spanish, but I already speak Spanish.
So I can't do it, unfortunately.
And I already know a lot of Portuguese and I already know a good amount of French.
I can't do it with any of the other similar languages.
However, I didn't know any Italian before I started this challenge.
So I thought that Italian would be a good choice.
because it would be kind of similar me learning Italian at another English speaker learning Spanish.
However, I have the big advantage that I already so there's a difference there but the method would be the same.
I would use this same method.
I would recommend the same method to an English speaker who's never learned a language before he wants to learn.
Spanish.
So that's why I chose Italian because I wanted a similar language, but one that I don't speak at all.
So that's why I chose it.
And it's a fun language.
Italian is super fun.
The sounds are fun.
The rhythm is really musical.
It's beautiful.
I think most of you would agree.
Italian just sounds really nice compared to other languages.
down there as well.
And if you like this podcast, please share it with anyone else you know who's learning English.
And please give it a five-star rating on Spotify or Apple Podcasts and writer review.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about me learning Italian.
So...
in my opinion, it's one of the most beautiful languages for sure.
So I'm really happy that I'm learning it now.
I like it a lot more than I thought I would.
And lastly, just one more note about this challenge.
I'm doing things a little bit differently than I would do them if I weren't documenting this and sending it to other people to recommend to them.
If I were just doing this by myself and not for other people, I would of course do passive listening with Italian and I wouldn't do every single thing that I'm doing right now, but I'm doing these things because I think that they will be good for other people who feel like they need more.
structure or process that seems a little more organized because for me if I weren't using this to recommend to other people I would probably be less organized and I would probably spend more time on certain things and less time on other things but I'm trying to create a very clean program for other people.
And because of that, I'm doing things a little differently from what I would normally do because I'm trying to create a very easy example to follow.
But this is more or less what I want to do.
It's just a tiny bit different.
So I want to mention that as well.
I'm trying to create this easy example to follow.
And I'm trying to create a very simple example to follow.
Those are my thoughts about this challenge, about why I'm doing it, the purpose, what I think about Italian and all of that.
I hope this episode was interesting for you and when I'm done with this challenge in the future, I'll do another episode to talk about it as well.
So stay tuned for that.
And of course, if you feel ready to practice with my advanced episodes in which I...
speak fast, then make sure to sign up to become a listening time family member.
The link is in the description below this episode.
And if you want to practice with real conversations, to practice listening to two native speakers talking to each other, then make sure to sign up for my US Conversations podcast.
The link is also in the description below this episode.
And if you like this podcast, please share it.
First of all, let me tell you why, why am I learning Italian?
Well this is part of a challenge that I'm doing, a challenge that I have for myself.
So what's the challenge?
Well I am going to study Italian for 100 days and I'm studying for two hours a day exactly.
There might be a few examples.
exceptions to that where I study an hour and a half one day, but then I make up for it the next day.
Nice study and extra half hour, let's say.
By the way, when we say that you make up for something, we're saying that you compensate for something.
So if I do a little less study in one day, I can make up for that or compensate for that.
the next day by studying a little bit more.
But most of the days I'm studying for exactly two hours.
So in total I'm going to study Italian for 200 hours, 100 days, 200 hours total, and I'm starting from scratch.
From scratch just means from nothing from zero.
So I've never studied Italian.
before, this is my first real exposure to the language, and so I'm starting from scratch.
So what is my purpose for doing this challenge?
What are my goals?
What do I hope to achieve?
Well, many people ask me about how to start learning a language.
A lot of English speakers have never learned a language before.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 141 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope everyone is doing excellent and I hope that you're ready to practice your English listening with another episode.
Today I'm going to talk about a really relevant topic which is...
the Super Bowl.
I'm sure most of you have heard of this before.
This is the biggest sporting event in the US.
This is the final game of the NFL, the National Football League.
So this event, I think will take place maybe two days or so before this...
I'm not a big sports history buff, so I can't tell you for sure, but I would say so.
By the way, we can use the word buff to talk about someone who is a fanatic of a certain topic, a certain, let's say, yield or discipline or something that they know a lot about
Oftentimes we use this with history.
If someone is a history buff, that means they know a lot about history.
They consume a lot of educational material about history.
They get excited about the topic.
That's a history buff.
So I'm not a sports history buff.
So some of my opinions might not be 100% accurate.
But I think...
that baseball was the national sport in the past.
And now it seems like it's football.
So this sporting event, the Super Bowl, is so popular that many, many non-football fans also watch it.
Even people that don't follow football at all, people that haven't watched it.
watched a single game all season, they might still watch the Super Bowl.
So you can imagine how popular this event is.
And another thing to remember is that most Americans only watch national sports.
This means that they only watch sports that are played in leagues.
that are with only American teams, or sometimes one Canadian team.
Toronto sometimes has a team that is part of our national league for different sports.
But for the most part, just American teams.
And so if you think about our major sports like football...
and basketball and baseball.
The games that people watch in the US are games that are played between two American teams.
Right?
The New York Yankees versus the Boston Red Sox.
Or the New England Patriots versus the Kansas City Chiefs.
Right?
There are two American teams.
not teams from different countries.
And this is different from the rest of the world, in most cases, because in most countries around the world, soccer is the biggest sport.
And one of the most exciting things about soccer throughout the year is that there are international competitions.
Play.
right?
Like the World Cup, for example, and many other international competitions.
So Americans don't usually watch these and our sports don't usually involve international teams except for Toronto sometimes.
Besides that, it's just an American League with American teams with...
Americans watching.
Obviously people from other countries sometimes watch our sports as well.
But in terms of what Americans watch, Americans watch American sports for the most part.
If you watch international sports as an American, you're in the minority.
So you can imagine that this sporting event.
which is for an American sport, the most popular one that even non-football fans are interested watching in terms of this final game, The Super Bowl.
You can imagine how many people watch this event.
It's very, very popular in the US.
And you might ask, what is the Super Bowl?
Really?
What is this?
episode is released.
And so this will be a topic that a lot of people are talking about.
So someone requested this topic and I thought it would be a good idea to talk a little bit about this because this is an element of American culture and I'm sure it will be educational for you too.
As I mentioned, it's the final game of the NFL.
And how it works is that there are 32 different NFL teams.
If I'm not mistaken, I'm just going off of my prior knowledge.
I didn't look this up.
So hopefully I'm not mistaken here.
But from what I remember back in the day.
days when I used to watch football.
There are 32 teams in total and these teams are divided into two conferences.
We call them the AFC, the American football conference and the NFC, the National Football Conference.
And each of these conferences has four divisions based on the geography of the US.
the north, the south, the east, and the west.
So you have an AFC West division and an NFC West division and an AFC North division and an NFC North division, etc.
And so all of these different teams in these different divisions in these two conferences, they play against each other throughout
the regular season and then we have the playoffs after the regular season.
The playoffs refer to the phase after the regular season that only certain teams qualify for, only the top teams.
And then during the playoffs there are different rounds in which teams are eliminated until...
So finally there are only two teams remaining.
One team from the AFC and one team from the NFC and these two teams play against each other in the Super Bowl.
So that's how the teams are determined who will play Super Bowl and then whoever wins the Super Bowl is...
the champion of the whole NFL, right?
They are the winners for that season.
So this is the case in most sports, I think.
At the end of every season, there's one team that is considered the champion.
And that's the case for the Super Bowl.
Whoever wins is the champion for that year.
And there are...
some important differences to consider when talking about American sports like football and soccer in other countries that will also help you understand the excitement of the Super Bowl.
So one really big difference that you can see in American sports when you...
compare them to soccer in most countries.
This is not always the case, but I think most of the time it is.
That is that in American sports, there's usually a different team at the top, a different champion every year.
It doesn't always happen like that, of course.
But most years, the champion is a different champion.
champion from the previous years champion.
And why is that?
Well, in American sports, of course we have the money factor, different owners of different teams have different amounts of money to spend.
And of course that's a factor, but it's not as...
big of a factor as it is in soccer in other countries.
As you might know, in most countries, there are certain soccer clubs that have tons of money and then other clubs have very little money and the clubs with a lot of money always win.
There are always the champions.
There aren't really...
learn about Super Bowl.
Even if you're not a big sports fan.
So this should be an interesting episode and remember that if you want my advanced episodes where I speak fast then make sure to become a listening time fan.
Remember and you'll get two new advanced episodes every month.
And the link to that is below in the episode description that's patreon.com slash listening time.
a lot of other teams with little money that compete for the championship every year.
Usually it's just one of the rich clubs that wins.
Again, that's not always the case, but that's the case most of the time.
In the US, it doesn't quite work like this in most of our sports.
There's always...
what we call a draft.
So for example the NFL draft is this event in which the different teams they draft or they choose different college football players.
So the big college football stars eventually go to
the NFL and the way that they do that is through this draft.
And so the different teams in the NFL, they are ranked according to how well or how poorly they did the previous year.
So for example, let's say that one team was the worst...
team in 2023.
They were last place.
They had the lowest amount of wins.
Well, that team is going to get the first pick in the NFL draft the next season.
So they were the worst team that year.
But then next year they get to choose.
their first college football player before any other team.
So basically they get the best guy, the best college football player.
So what happens is that these band teens they suddenly get a really good college star that's going to make their team better.
And this process
other factors as well help to balance out the different teams so that it's not always the same teams that are good and the same teams that are bad.
There are always cycles where a team is good or a season or a couple seasons and then they're bad and then they're good again and then they're bad.
And that happens a lot more
in football, that it does in soccer in other countries.
So because of all of that, the Super Bowl is often extra exciting in this context because many times it involves a team that was bad during the previous years.
So maybe there was a team that didn't even make the playoffs.
one year, but then the next year they are in the Super Bowl.
And so it's really exciting for that city's fans because they went from being bad to suddenly they're competing for the ultimate prize.
And so you can imagine the excitement for many cities when their team makes it to the Super Bowl even though they've never won it before.
or they were really bad the last few years, so it makes it more exciting.
And knowing all that, you also know that if a team does win multiple Super Bowls year after year, you know that that team is really special because that doesn't normally happen.
So you might know about...
the New England Patriots back when Tom Brady was on the team and how they won Super Bowl after Super Bowl after Super Bowl many different Super Bowls and we would call that a dynasty.
In American sports when one team wins multiple championships in a short period of time
And if you feel ready to practice with my conversations that I have with other American English teachers from around the country, then make sure to sign up for my US Conversations podcast and you'll get new long conversation every month with the transcript and with the definitions of keywords and phrases.
So the link to that is also.
we say that that team has a dynasty and dynasis are very special in the US because they don't happen often it's not like in different soccer leagues around the world where the same team can win four or five times in a row and it's just normal it's expected not in the US that's
very rare and so it's special when that happens.
So, about the Super Bowl itself, you might already know this.
It's very flashy.
That just means that there's an excess of spectacular elements.
Right?
There are a lot of amazing things.
It's a whole show.
It starts with the National Anthem, where some...
one sing our national song, right, the star-spangled banner, and usually it's some celebrity or famous singer or someone.
I don't know.
But it's very dramatic usually.
And by the way, this national anthem is sung at all of our sporting events.
events, our national ones, even local sporting events.
It's not just during international games against other countries.
No, even at a local high school basketball game, they'll probably sing the national anthem before the game.
This is an important element of the sporting event.
And then of course there's the big halftime show.
during the Super Bowl.
In the middle of the game, after the second quarter, the teams take a break and there's this halftime show.
It's basically concert.
There's some famous musician or someone that puts on this amazing show for all of these fans.
And it's very flashy.
It's very...
spectacular and the commercials are also important during the Super Bowl.
This is when you'll see the funniest and most creative commercials, advertisements for different companies.
And this makes it more fun for non-football fans who are watching the Super Bowl.
Some people get excited for the commercials.
more than the football game and people will often talk about these commercials afterwards.
Hey, did you see the commercial for blah blah blah company?
Because the commercials are very different during the Super Bowl.
The companies that advertise during the Super Bowl purposely put their best effort and
the most amount of money on these particular commercials and people like them.
So that makes it fun for some people and people have super-bull parties.
This is really common people invite their friends and their family members over.
They watch the game sometimes.
I say this because many people go to super-bull parties.
and they don't actually watch the game.
They just talk and socialize and eat, especially chips and guac.
Guac is a way to say guacamole here.
So people might just treat it as a social event.
They might not even care about who wins.
They just go for the socializing and the food.
They just go for the socializing and the food.
maybe the commercials.
So as you can see this is very different from let's say an important soccer match because pretty much everyone who goes to watch an important soccer match is watching the match.
They're not there to socialize, right?
But with Super Bowl, it's a social event.
The sport is sometimes important.
the description below.
That's patreon.com slash US conversations.
And as always, please give this podcast a five-star rating on Spotify or Apple podcasts.
And please share it with your friends and family members who are learning English.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
sometimes not so important.
Usually it's a mix.
Usually some people are really into the game when they go to these parties and some people aren't.
They're the ones standing, talking in the kitchen or whatever.
So you have a mixture there.
So superble parties are very common and a lot of people.
look forward to them.
Alright, I think that's pretty much all I wanted to say about the Super Bowl.
Hopefully you learned a little bit about this tradition here in the US, and maybe some of you watched the Super Bowl.
I don't know.
I'm not gonna watch it because I'm not interested in football, but a lot of other Americans are interested in this.
So hopefully this episode will get...
practice for your listening and remember that if you feel ready to practice with real English, spoken at normal speed, make sure to sign up to become a listening time family member to receive my advanced podcast episodes.
The link is down below and you also have the link down below for my US conversations podcast in which I talk to different people from around the country
about interesting topics and it's great practice for you to start listening to and understanding two people talking to each other.
So the link is also in the description down below.
And please give this podcast a five star rating on Spotify or Apple Podcasts if you can and share it with anyone else you know who might find it useful.
Okay, let's talk about the Super Bowl.
The Super Bowl this year in 2024 will take place on February 11th.
And I think this episode will be released on the 13th if I'm not mistaken.
So the Super Bowl probably just happened if you're listening to this episode the week that I did.
comes out.
So people might be talking about it, you might have heard about it in the news or on social media.
And the first thing that is important to know about the Super Bowl is that it's the biggest national sporting event in the US by far, I think.
When we say by far, we're saying by a wide margin.
It means that this is in first place and the second place one is far behind.
So the Super Bowl is by far the biggest national sporting event in the US.
And football, American football, of course, is the most popular sport in the US.
This is the sport that many people watch more people.
watch this sport than any other sport.
So it's become maybe the new national sport if we have one.
I don't think we have one in the US but if there were a national sport it would probably be football nowadays whereas a hundred years ago it would have been baseball.
So I think
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 101 of Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
I'm glad that we finally reached episode 100 and now we're moving on from that and hopefully some point will reach episode 200 in the future.
Thank you all again for listening and a special thank you
of my members, all of you who have joined my membership, I really appreciate and support.
It's because of you that I'm able to continue making this content, making this podcast, and all of the exclusive content for membership.
This wouldn't be possible without you.
Thank you so much.
I really appreciate that.
And remember that if you want my specialized listening training, you can become a...
pain and your joints from time to time if you don't do things properly or maybe if you just run a lot you might just feel this because of how much you've run.
However, when it comes to swimming the good thing is that you don't have that same downside, right?
In English the word downside refers to some disadvantage that you have so you don't have that same
when it comes to swimming.
It's really easy on your joints and it's also good cardio.
So that's great.
And it also works your muscles as well.
It works your back a lot, lower back, upper back.
It's good for your abs, as we say, your abdominal muscles.
So it's good for your core.
Your core is the whole middle part of your body.
So...
your abs and your obliques which are on your sides and then lower back.
All of this is like your core you might say.
So it's good for your core and it's good for your shoulders and work out your shoulders and arms.
So it's like a whole body workout really.
So it's good for all of that and one other thing that it's good for is your breathing.
You have to learn.
and had a greed well and also had a hold your breath underwater.
This is something that I've never been very good at, but a lot of swimmers can hold the breath for a long time and not worry about running out of breath when they're underwater.
So that's another thing you get to exercise a little bit when you swim.
And swimming is very fun.
So many kids love the water.
water.
We develop that love for going in the water and we're young a lot of the time.
And so my son for example, he's not even two years old but he loves the water.
He loves taking baths.
It's a really fun thing for him and he absolutely loves going in the pool with either mom or dad.
He really likes that and you can tell at this age...
that he's gonna like swimming when he's older.
And as kids we also have pool parties sometimes in the US this is pretty common.
If you have a swimming pool you might invite other kids over for your birthday or just for any reason and have the party concentrated in the pool.
That's where the kids will hang out a lot of the time and
And even as adults swimming is really fun as well.
It's not just an exercise.
It's something that's relaxing.
It's entertaining.
It's nice to just chill in the pool sometimes.
In English, you can use the verb to chill, to say that you hang out or spend time doing something.
It's kind of like a slang word to chill.
And how about...
in terms of safety.
Well, it's great for kids to learn how to swim at a young age because it will help prevent accidents later on.
So a lot of people in the US put their kids in swimming classes at a very young age so that they can get used to water and learn how to float, learn how to swim, all of that.
And they do so for...
the benefit of the kids' health.
They do it for the fun, but they also do it for the safety aspect.
They want to make sure that their kids aren't going to drown in any situation.
In English, the word drown refers to when you can't swim or you're in rough water and you can't stay afloat.
You can't stay up and unfortunately you die because you can't stay up and you can't swim to safety and so you drown.
So of course we want to prevent that as parents.
So that's really important for a lot of people.
They want their kids to learn how to swim and they want them to be able to swim without using floaties or water wings.
listening time member and you'll get my listening practice seminars where I help you understand the different sound patterns in English, the different things that are hard for you to understand.
And if you want my advanced podcast episodes then make sure to become a listening time family member or VIP and you'll receive two new advanced episodes every month.
So if you're interested in that make sure to click.
We use these terms to refer to those little inflatable things that we put on kids' arms so that they can float in the water and not sink.
We sometimes call these floaties and some people call them water wounds.
So it's good to have kids learn to swim without using these.
So that's a goal that many parents have.
And this issue...
of safety also relates to adults as well if you're an adult and you've never learned how to swim it can also be good for you to learn as well just in case you're in a situation where you're in the water because you don't want to drown either so it's very good to learn how to swim so that we can stay safe around the water.
All right let me talk a little bit about my experience
my relationship with swimming.
So first of all, let me talk about swimming lessons.
So as I already mentioned, a lot of kids in the US take swimming lessons and I was no exception.
In English, when you say that you're no exception, this just means that you're the same.
So I'm no exception.
I also did swimming lessons when I was a kid.
I think I did it.
when I was four years old, maybe four or five, I had swimming lessons and to be honest I hated them.
So I didn't like these types of organized activities and classes in general and I definitely didn't like doing swimming lessons.
I don't think that I had major problems learning how to swim per se, but I just didn't like it.
having to work with and structure and not being with my parents and I never liked that feeling in general and the thing that I dislike the most I can still remember this now was I hated having to jump in the pool from the diving board.
The diving board is that long rectangular thing that you jump off of into the
So people dive off of the diving board and land in the water.
So we had to do that when we did swimming lessons as kids.
And I remember that I didn't want to jump in the water.
I was so scared to jump off of the diving board.
And like I said, I still remember this today.
That's how much I disliked it.
So I didn't like my swimming lessons.
lessons, but I know that they were good for me and I know that they helped me out and I was able to swim on my own at a pretty young age.
And throughout childhood, I always had a pool.
So when I lived in my old house where I spent the first years of my life, we had a pool backyard and then when we moved to San Diego.
I was almost eight years old.
We also had a pool.
I think my parents always wanted a swimming pool.
I think that was something they really appreciated and enjoyed.
And I remember my parents swimming a lot when I was younger.
So I think that they always wanted to live in houses that had swimming pools.
And in the US, it's pretty common for houses to have pools.
know that in other countries that's very rare or that's only for the rich or the people with mansions but in the US it's different.
Many houses have swimming pools in the backyard and so we always had a swimming pool when I was growing up and that meant that I always had the chance to go swimming and we always had pool parties when I was a kid so whenever we had
birthday parties or just invited our extended family to come over in the summer or whatever it was.
It usually revolved around swimming as long as it was in the summer.
And so we did that a lot and I liked being in the pool but I didn't really like swimming just swimming back and forth and doing it.
on the link in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listen time.
Alright, in today's episode we're gonna talk about swimming.
I think I might have talked a little bit about this before.
I don't remember exactly, but I don't think I've done a whole episode on this.
So that's what we'll talk about today.
And I'm sure a lot of you like swimming.
So this will be a good episode for...
it for exercise.
I never really liked that, but I played in the pool.
I think I always played more than I swam.
So I would just do different activities and play different games, but I didn't view it as exercise, and I kind of just liked playing around with my friends, and as a teenager, I didn't build the pool that much.
However, my friends, whenever they came over in the summer, they always asked to go in the pool because they didn't have pools and they wanted to take advantage of our pool.
And so I would go in whenever my friends would come over.
But if it was just me, then I rarely went in the pool as a teenager.
So that wasn't one of my favorite activities.
Like I meant...
I liked playing in the pool with other people and playing games, but I didn't really want to go in alone and just swim or spend time alone in there.
That was never my thing.
It wasn't my thing as child or a teenager.
And so I mostly went in with other people.
And as an adult, I definitely don't swim much nowadays.
It's not one of my things.
activities and I think one of the reasons for that is that I never really spent a lot of time perfecting my swimming technique so of course I learned how to swim.
I took swimming lessons but I never really practiced with the different strokes and the different techniques.
In this context we might use the word stroke to refer to a different type.
of swimming technique.
So there's the backstroke, the rest stroke, etc.
So I didn't really practice that much with the different strokes.
And so I never got good at any of them.
And to be honest, I always spend a lot of my time doggie paddling.
We use this phrase to refer to when you're not using a proper swimming technique and you're just kind of...
of moving your arms and legs in the way that a dog would, if they're in the water.
I'm sure you've seen a dog swimming, how they use their legs and just kind of push the water in not a very effective way.
And when humans do that, we call that doggy pattern.
And to be honest, that's how I swam a lot of the time but when I'm with you,
growing up.
I just doggie paddled because it's the easiest way to get from point A to point B in a pool without needing to use some proper technique.
So I never got very good at swimming and at the different techniques, unfortunately.
And I think that's one of the reasons why I never swam that much for exercise.
And it's one of the reasons why I'm not swimming.
reasons why I don't really like going to pool that much as an adult either.
However, I love taking my son pool.
He loves being in the water, as I mentioned, and of course he doesn't swim on his own, he's just a baby.
However, he loves being taken into the pool by either my wife or me, and he can spend like hours in there.
He really likes me.
He likes taking his little water toys in there and it's really fun for us too, but it's tiring.
Of course, because we have to hold him the whole time and make sure that he doesn't get water in his mouth.
All that stuff.
But it's really fun.
And I also really like swimming in ocean, actually.
I should say that I don't swim with good technique in the ocean.
not referring to that.
However, I like going to the beach and kind of playing in the waves.
I like when there are decent sized waves, not very big waves, of course, but decent sized waves.
I like that.
I like being able to swim with waves or go under the waves.
I like that.
So I really prefer going in.
a lot of you.
And remember that you have the transcript available if you need it.
That's below the episode in the episode description.
So click on that and listen to this episode as many times as you need until you can eventually understand everything that I'm saying without using the transcript.
That should be your goal.
And if you like this podcast, I would appreciate it if you shared it with...
the water at the beach.
I should say that I don't like going in and it's very cold.
I like it when it's warm.
So I like going to the beach in Mexico, for example, middle of Mexico or the south of the country where the water is very warm.
I really like that because it's so comfortable in the water.
It's like taking a bath and I can just enjoy the water.
waves and swim a little bit, go underwater, etc.
I really like that.
So that's the type of water activity that I prefer.
I don't really like spending a lot of time in pool unless I'm in there with my son.
So that's my type of swimming, so to say.
One other thing that I really like as well is jumping into the water from...
high places.
I know that I mentioned before that I didn't like jumping off the diving board as a kid.
However, somehow when I got older I started to like those adrenaline activities that make you a little bit nervous and that require a little bit of bravery.
I started to like those activities more when I got older.
So I started
liking volicosterous and things like that.
And I also really like jumping into the water from high places.
It makes me a little bit scared when I look over the edge and I see the pool over the lake or whatever the ocean far below me.
Of course, I get a little bit scared, but I kind of like the adrenaline of jumping off that.
place into the water.
So I've been able to do that at a few different places like in Hawaii or in some places here in California where there are big rocks that could jump off of into lakes or into ocean water.
So that's really fun for me as well.
All right, why don't I stop there for today?
I hope that this episode was interesting for you.
and I hope it was good practice for your listening.
Remember that if you want my advanced episodes, if you want to practice with real English, spoken fast, then make sure to become a listening time family member or VIP and you'll get two new advanced episodes every month.
So if you're interested in that, the link is in the episode description below this episode.
That's patreon.com slash listen time.
and you have the transcript for this episode down there as well.
So click on that if you need it.
And if you like this podcast and you want to help me out and help other English learners out, please share it with anyone you know.
And also please give it a five star rating and write a review if you can.
I really appreciate it.
All right, thank you for listening to this episode and I'll talk to you on the next.
with your friends, with family members, anyone you know who's learning English and help them out and help me out.
I really appreciate that.
And if you can, please give this podcast a five star rating and a review.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about swimming.
Fasting ürinking
Let me talk about swimming in terms of exercise and then we'll talk about it in terms of fun and in terms of safety.
But first of all, exercise.
Swimming is a fantastic exercise.
A lot of you already know this and if you're a swimmer, you probably know this very well.
So swimming is a great cardio exercise.
In English, we use the word cardio to refer to exercises.
that are good for your heart.
When you're working your heart muscle, this is a cardio exercise.
So for example, if you like to run, you do cardio when you run, or just walking can be cardio.
Anything like that, or you're working your heart, that's cardio, as we call it.
The swim is great for your heart.
And the good E is...
is that it's also easy on your joints.
Remember that in English, the word Jones refers to the areas of your body that bend like your knees and your ankles and things like that.
So specifically on your knees, swimming is very good because it doesn't put that same pressure on your knees that running does.
So I like running, I'm not good.
at it, but I want to get better.
And it's an exercise that I enjoy.
I appreciate.
However, I know that running is maybe not the best for my joints.
It's not the best for my knees.
I think that there are ways that we can do it.
And of course, not put too much pressure on our joints.
However, if you do it for many years, you might deal with some discomfort.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 145 of the Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
I hope you're doing well and I hope that you're enjoying practicing your English listening with all of these episodes.
I hope that this podcast has been a useful resource for your English life.
And in today's episode, we're gonna talk about a topic that I really like, but for some people it might not be the best one, and that is time management.
So for some people, time management is really hard, and for other people this is easy, and they're naturally good.
value, punctuality.
I don't think many people would say that they don't think this is important.
They probably don't say it so clearly like that, but in reality they don't value this and their actions show it, right?
So for me, for example, I'm a punctual person and I don't see arriving on time
a choice.
I don't view it as a choice that I have.
I view it as an obligation.
I have no choice.
Of course, I arrive on time.
So that's my mentality.
Other people might have a different mentality.
They might view being punctual as a choice.
And these would be people that
don't necessarily value punctuality as much as other people.
And I'm not criticizing here.
I'm just trying to talk about this topic in general from my point of view.
And so don't think that I'm criticizing anyone here.
Trust me, I'm going to talk about my weaknesses later on.
So I'm not trying to say that I...
great at these things.
No, I'm just talking about my strengths and weaknesses and one of them is that I'm pretty punctual whereas other people might not be so punctual because they give themselves the choice.
They say I could arrive on time but I can just arrive ten minutes late and it makes no difference.
Right?
And you might be.
one of these people and it might be because this is the culture where you live.
In some places, this is normal.
This is what is more acceptable even.
You might not want to arrive on time to a birthday party because that might be seen as a little inappropriate.
Like you're supposed to arrive late.
I've had that experience before, where I arrived on time to a birthday party, and I was the only one there, and the host wasn't even there.
The host is the person who's throwing the party.
I've had that experience before, and I know that in some cultures this is normal.
So again...
I'm just talking in general, not criticizing here, but some people are punctual, some people aren't, and some people try to be punctual, but sometimes they fail, sometimes they succeed, they're kind of inconsistent, and I think that people like this that want to be on time, they try, but they fail.
a lot, I think that what could help is if they start to view it as an obligation and don't see it as a choice.
If they don't see any other alternative, then it's just what they have to do.
Right?
That's what works for me.
And another area of life in which it's important to have some time management.
And I think I'm pretty strong in this area is finishing work on time.
So again, for me, I view it as something that is not a choice.
It's an obligation.
I don't have a choice.
I don't have the option of not finishing my work on time.
Have to do it.
I was thinking about
this and it reminded me of a conversation I had with a student of mine a while ago.
This student asked me about how I am able to do all of my work on time, especially considering that I don't have a boss I work independently and I told her that I don't have a choice.
at managing their time.
I would say that in general I can manage my time pretty well.
However, I have some weaknesses as well.
So in this episode I want to talk in general about some different areas in our lives that require time management and I'll also talk a little bit about
And the way that I ensure that I don't have a choice is by creating deadlines for myself.
And if you're part of my membership, you know that I release certain content on certain days of the month, right?
On the first day of the month, I release a new listening practice seminar.
On the 15th.
day of the month, I release a bonus podcast episode and if you're a family member or a VIP, my membership, then there's a lot more.
There are two advanced episodes, one on the fifth day of the month, one on the 20th day of the month, and there's the sound training video, and there's the Q&A every week.
There are a lot of things that I have to...
publish, I have to upload and I'm committed to doing those things on certain days of month.
So I have no choice.
Everyone is expecting a new listening practice seminar on the first day of the month.
So I have no choice.
I have to upload it on.
So I give myself these deadlines.
I promise that certain content will be...
will be available on certain days and that's what I do.
So this is an example of how deadlines really help me finish my work on time.
And I don't procrastinate.
I just try to do things every day and work for the same amount of time every day so that helps as well because I try not to procrastinate.
You really can get enough time without this."
And one other area in which I'm pretty good at managing my time is during my downtime.
Your downtime refers to the time that you have in which you're not really working.
You don't need to be doing something.
So a lot of people, you their downtime as time to just do nothing or...
maybe to just watch TV series or use social media things like that.
And that's great.
There's nothing wrong with that obviously because it's your downtime.
However, for me, I really like to use my downtime to do certain productive things that I really want to do, but it's hard to find time.
to do them.
Things related to language learning, for example, or things like reading and stuff like that.
So instead of using social media or watching Netflix or whatever, during my downtime, I tend to do language learning or do some reading.
Even if it's just for 10 minutes or 15 minutes or...
whatever.
So that's not something you have to do.
You don't need to use your downtime for productive things and I think that for many people it might even be negative to try to use their downtime for productive things because most people need time to just not be productive and just you know watch something beyond social media.
I completely agree with that.
However, my personality is a little bit strange.
I'm a little bit different and I like to use my downtime for things like language learning and reading and things like that.
But I don't think that that's normal for most people and I don't recommend that you all do that unless you want to.
Then I recommend it of course.
Alright, let's talk.
about my weaknesses.
I know you want to hear about the areas in which I'm not so good in.
So one of the areas which I need to get better at managing my time is regarding sleep.
So I definitely have room for improvement here.
The phrase room for improvement means that you have the ability.
me personally about a few areas in which I'm really strong, I'm good at time management and a few areas in which I'm not so good at managing my time.
I want to talk about my strengths and my weaknesses because I have both.
So I hope this episode will be interesting for you and before we start.
to improve because you're not really good yet.
So I have some room for improvement in this area.
In my mind, I have a fixed bedtime.
The word fixed in this case means that this bedtime is set.
This is something that I'm supposed to observe as being my bedtime.
It's my fixed bedtime.
And in my mind, it's pretty strict.
Okay, I need to go to bed at this time.
However, in reality, I allow for more flexibility than that.
I think that my bedtime is 10pm.
However, in reality, I often find myself awake after that time and still...
reading something or still language learning or whatever and I'm supposed to be sleeping, but I'm not so Sometimes I wake up in morning and I feel like I didn't get enough sleep and It's my own fault because I didn't manage my time Wisely I didn't stick to my schedule and so I got less sleep
than I should have gotten.
So this is something that a lot of you can probably identify with.
You want to go to bed at a certain time and maybe you're like me and you actually have the idea that this is your bedtime.
It's strict in your mind but in practice you don't actually follow this schedule.
And so this is something that I need to prove and if I get better at it, I'm sure that my life will be better as a result because I'll feel better in the morning.
And another area in which I'm weak, I'm not good at managing my time is when it comes to monthly planning.
When it comes to...
planning out my month and knowing what I'm supposed to be doing on which day and keeping track of all of my appointments and that kind of stuff.
I'm not good at this.
By the way, we can use the phrase keep track of to say that you are aware of what is happening, you're following it.
and you know that it's happening.
You're keeping track of it.
So I've always resisted using a planner.
I don't know why, but I've always had trouble accepting this idea that I should use a planner.
And I think that I can just keep all of these dates and times organized in my own mind.
But in the reality, I can't.
I forget certain things that I'm supposed to do on certain days because I didn't write them down and I don't have a planner and this happens to me and I have to try to remember, oh, I think I was supposed to do something, but I can't remember what it was and I have that problem.
because I don't plan my month well.
And I just recently bought a whiteboard calendar that I can write on with a marker, a race.
And this is the first time that I've tried to use a planner, like a monthly planner thing.
And I'm still learning to use it, and I'm still bad at it.
I...
tried to write down things that I need to remember and it's helped a little bit however I still have the tendency to just ignore my plan.
I don't know why that is so this is something that I really need to get better at.
I know a lot of other people they keep a very organized and...
start as always I want to remind you that if you want my advanced episodes in which I speak fast then make sure to join my membership and become a listening time family member the link is down below in the episode description and if you want to practice with real conversations in which I speak to other native speakers about different topics and we want to...
meat monthly planner and that's awesome.
By the way, the word meat refers to something that is clean and tidy.
It's organized, right?
So if you're able to do that, congratulations because I'm not on that level yet.
But I hope that I can do that in the future.
I'm practicing it now with my monthly planning.
So that's something that I'm definitely weak at, but I hope to improve.
And one other area in which I am weak and I don't manage my time well is when estimating how much I can do during a certain time period.
Let me explain.
Because I'm generally...
pretty efficient with my time.
As I mentioned, I like to be really productive, have deadlines, be punctual, and all that is good, obviously.
But I also have the tendency of overestimating what I can do with my time.
Because in my mind I'm punctual, efficient, productive, all those things.
So...
I think I can do a lot of stuff, but in reality I end up overestimating what I'm capable of, and so I'm trying to do too much.
And honestly, I've experienced that a lot recently.
Now I feel like that currently and in the past.
a few months or so and it's something that I need to change because I'm overestimating what I can do with my time and it's causing me to do too much and to be stressed out because I expect to do more than I'm capable of doing.
And this is something that can really affect you and affect your mood and frustrate you.
If you don't accurately estimate how much you can do, right?
I'm very bad at this.
I think I can do a ton of things.
But in reality, I...
can't do that many things because there are only 24 hours in a day.
So other people are much more honest with themselves about what they're able to do, what they're not able to do, and they're better than me at this.
I have a lot of room for improvement, and I'm not saying it's a terrible thing.
It's not terrible of me.
that I overestimate what I can do, but it isn't healthy, right?
It's not healthy to think you can do five things when in reality there's only enough time for three things.
So this is something I need to change and if I can get better at this then I think that my stress level
will decrease and I think that I'll enjoy my time more because I won't always feel like my time is running out.
I don't have enough time because I need to do all of these things.
That's not fun.
So I hope that with time I can improve in this area and that will have benefits for me.
different forms I hope.
So those were some of my weaknesses and you can see that even though I'm someone who is generally considered to be pretty good at managing my time, I still have a lot of weaknesses.
So there are still a lot of things that I need to improve in this regard.
So...
practice understanding to people talking, then make sure to sign up for my US Conversations podcast.
The link is also in the episode description down below and you have the transcript for this episode down there as well.
And as always please share this podcast with anyone else you know who's learning English and please give it a five-star reading on Spotify.
I hope I can do that.
And I hope this episode was interesting for you and that it was good practice for your listening.
Remember that if you feel ready to practice with my advanced podcast episodes, then make sure to become a listening time family member.
The link is down below in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you feel ready to practice listening to Robert.
conversations that I have with other English teachers from around the United States.
Then sign up for my US Conversations Podcast.
The link is also in the description down below.
That's patreon.com slash US Conversations.
And please give this podcast a five-star rating and write a review on Spotify or Apple podcasts and share it with any English Lannos that you.
or Apple Podcasts and write a review if you can.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening talk.
Okay, let's talk about time management.
I'm going to talk about some different areas in which I'm pretty good at managing my time.
I'll start with my strengths and then after the
that.
I'll talk about a few areas in which I'm not so good at managing my time.
So I'll end with my weaknesses.
You'll get the full picture here, my strengths and my weaknesses.
So let's start with my strengths.
Well, one of the areas of life or one of the situations I should say in which I manage my time well.
is being punctual, arriving on time to different things.
So when it comes to being punctual, there are two types of people, really.
I think everyone falls into one of these two categories.
There are different levels and extremes within these two categories.
categories, but I think in general, everyone is either a person who views punctuality as important.
They actually value punctuality.
By the way, being punctual just means being on time.
So, some people value being on time, they value punctuality, and other people don't.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 142 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope that you're doing well with your English learning and I hope that these episodes have helped you improve your comprehension and in today's episode.
We're going to talk about something that's a little bit
sensitive and maybe a little controversial.
I don't do this that often, but I really want to talk about this topic because it comes up sometimes when I talk to people from different countries.
By the way, the phrasal verb come up.
In this case means that something is mentioned.
Someone says something.
They...
By this perplexed means that you're really confused.
So people in the US would be completely perplexed by the fact that some people would take exception to us using the term American to describe ourselves most people maybe 99% of people in the US have never even heard of the other viewpoint before and they would be really confused.
about why someone would disagree with this usage of the term American.
So let me explain why.
In many countries throughout the world, I don't know how many, but in my country, for example, in the US, when we learn geography in school, we learn that there are seven continents.
So for some of you,
you might already be shocked by this because in some countries you don't learn that there's seven continents so what's the difference here?
What is the reason for this?
Why do some of us think there are seven continents and some people think there are six or five?
Well we learn that North America is one continent and South America.
is another continent.
We learn that these are two separate continents.
Pretty much everyone in the US learns this as far as I know.
However, in many countries in what we would refer to as South America or Central America or Mexico, for example, people might learn in school that...
there's just one continent called America.
That north and south America are just one big continent, and this is America.
And they might still use the term North America and South America, but really it's just one America for them.
So we learn two completely different facts, so to say.
And this is
the start of the issue.
So this fact that we have two different ideas of what these continents are called or if they are two continents or it's just one continent that's maybe one of the roots of this debate.
A root just refers to one of the deeper reasons.
or something.
So this is one of the roots of this controversy.
So let's say that you live in a country like Colombia, let's say.
So you live in Colombia and you learn that you live in a continent called America.
Right?
You live in South America but more generally speaking, you just say you live in.
America.
Right?
So people with this situation, people that grow up in a country like this, could easily consider themselves to be American.
Right?
Just like, for example, if you live in France, you could say that you're European.
Right?
Because that's the continent that your country is praying.
but you live in the continent of Europe.
So your French and your European.
Just like someone in Colombia could say that they are Colombian and they are also American.
If they have that system mind, right, they could say they're South American, they're American, they're Colombian.
They could say all of those things, right?
It makes sense because with this system, with this geographical perspective, if you live in one of these countries in South America or Central America, then your continent is still America.
So you could use either term depending on the conversation or what you're trying to say.
So...
Bring up a certain topic.
It comes up.
So this topic comes up sometimes and it's the topic of the word American.
What does the term American mean and who does it refer to?
Who is American?
So for some of you this might sound crazy.
You might not understand what I'm talking about.
Here's the problem.
In the US people don't learn that there's one continent called America.
People learn that there are two continents, North America and South America.
And more specifically, they learn about the different distinctions even within that.
So for example, like Central America.
we don't think of that as a separate continent, but it's kind of a term used to describe a certain region within North America.
So it gets a little more detailed, let's say.
And so because of that people here wouldn't use the term America to describe everything from Canada all the way down to Argentina.
Right, that's not the term that they
learn to use in that context, right?
We would think of North America, South America, and sometimes Central America.
So those terms are different because of our experience of what we've learned in school and the geographical system that we have in our minds.
So we often...
Classify everything from let's say Mexico down to Argentina as Latin America Right and obviously there are some countries that might not agree with that distinction or they might not actually speak Latin language, right?
So it's kind of a general term obviously there are exceptions and and
It's a little more complicated than that, but in general people here they might think of Everything to the south of the US as Latin America.
That's not really a Continental distinction, but it's just a way to classify this area Using the context of let's say the languages spoken, right?
And so Latin America is a very common term that is used here and Latin Americans is also a very common term.
Latin Americans come to the US or vacation, for example.
So people might use that term Latin American.
So that's based on this different idea, this different system.
of the geography that people have in their minds.
And what's also interesting about that is that in the US people don't really use the term North Americans, right?
And they don't really identify with a continent.
I think in most other places around the world people can identify with both a country.
and a continent.
Like with my example, if you live in France, you can say your French and your European.
And both of those would probably seem natural for you to say based on the context, because you might be talking about Europe as a whole and maybe some of the differences between Europe and the US, for example, and you might say, oh we...
Europeans do things differently because there are a lot of things that the different European countries have in common.
And if you live in an Asian country, you might say, I'm Korean or I'm Asian based on the context.
However, what's interesting is that people in the US don't.
Really ever say I'm North American.
I don't think I've heard someone say that my whole life people don't identify with The continent people here just use the term American right I'm American and People in Canada would say I'm Canadian I've never heard Canadian person Claim the term American for them Maybe North
here.
But for others, if you live in certain countries, you might know exactly what I'm talking about because you might consider yourself American and you don't live in the US.
So I think this will be a really interesting topic and a lot of you will learn a lot about this topic as I talk about it.
American.
Sure, some Canadians would say that in certain situations.
But really the controversy here is more with the US and the people in the region that we would call Latin America.
And so people in the US don't really identify with the continent in North America.
So really, people just say, I'm American.
That's the only thing that you'll hear.
And so that's different from Europeans, Asians, etc.
Where they might say that they are of that continent, you know, normal context, right?
So that's kind of the summary of maybe some of the roots of this issue here.
Right?
We have different systems of education that teach us different geography and we have different...
ways of identifying ourselves, some people identify with a country and a continent, and in the US, people just identify with the country.
So these are some things that result in two different usages of the word American depending on who you are.
But there's one other really important thing and
In my opinion, it's probably the most important factor here, even more important than everything I just said.
And that has to do with the actual name of the country.
So the name of my country officially is the United States of America.
Of course we usually just abbreviate that and say the US.
We don't even say the US say.
most of the time.
We just say the US, but of course the actual name of the country, officially speaking, is the United States of America.
And if you think about it, the name of our country is similar to names of other countries in the sense that the official name is multiple words, but really...
people abbreviated and they only say one word or something.
So a perfect example of this is Mexico.
Pretty much everyone refers to this country as Mexico.
However, the official name is Estados Unigos Mejicanos.
In English, that translates to United Mexican States.
So even though this is...
the official name of Mexico, people just say Mexico.
And the demonym that people say, the word demonym refers to the term used to describe a group of people from a certain place.
So like American, for example, is a demonym.
So we say Mexico and the demonym is Mexican.
Right?
He is Mexican.
They are Mexicans, right?
Just like someone from Italy, the Eminem would be Italian, right?
So we say Mexico and the Eminem is Mexican.
However, the actual name of the country, officially speaking, is United Mexican States, right?
So in the US, our country's name.
officially speaking is the United States of America.
So if we follow that same logic, that means that instead of saying the United States of America, just like United Mexican states, we would just say America, like we just say Mexico.
And many, many people in the U.S. refer to the U.S. as an
America, you'll hear this all the time.
You'll hear things like, in America, people drive a lot.
What they're saying is in the US, right, in the USA, but they just say, America, just like people, Mexico, just say Mexico, right?
And the issue here is that there is no other possible, DEMONIM for the US.
it might be new for most of you.
So this should be good.
And like I said, it's kind of a controversial topic.
I'm just gonna present the different viewpoints.
Okay, the word viewpoint just refers to a perspective in opinion about something.
So I'm just gonna present the different viewpoints.
I'm not here to tell you that one is called.
say there's no other possible word that works in English that could be used to describe someone from the USA except for the word American right because it's the United States of America so the Eminem is American just like United Mexican states the Eminem is Mexican so I make
sense.
So in English it would be absurd to say the term United Statesy.
For example, that it sounds completely ridiculous.
And in Mexico you don't say that either.
Even though it's the Stalos Unitos Mexicanos, you don't make the demonym from the Estalos Unitos part.
You make it from the Mexicanos part.
You use that to create the term.
So, in the US it's the same.
We have the United States of America, so we use the word America to make the dominant and say American.
Just like in the UK, even that name, the UK, is a pretty weird one, just like the US, and we don't say United Kingdomian for someone from the UK.
Right, they have their own.
which has historical reasons and some different things there, but you could call someone a British person, a Brit.
They have a different diminutive.
It doesn't come from the word Kingdom.
Just like we don't use the word States to create the diminutive.
Does that make sense?
So that's why the diminutive is American because there's no other you know easy word to use to
describe someone from the U.S. Of course, you could say a U.S. citizen.
However, you don't have to do this for any other country.
You don't have to say an Italian citizen, a Mexican citizen.
No, you can just say an Italian man, a Mexican woman, right?
So it would be kind of unfair for people in the U.S. to always have to refer to themselves as a U.S.
citizen, right?
It wouldn't really make sense if every other country has their own demonym where they have a special word for people from that country.
So because of all that, in the US people call themselves Americans, right?
And they would have no idea that people in other countries would take offense to this.
They really would have no idea.
But
That's because they haven't talked to people from these other countries, so they don't know the other viewpoint, the other perspective.
So that's a lot of information, I know, and I'm sure many of you have your own opinion about which perspective is correct, and that's great.
I think people should be able to have their own opinions.
I'm not presenting an opinion here.
I just wanted to show the two different...
perspectives, right?
If someone believes that their continent is called America and they identify with that continent, then they can say, I'm American because in that context, it makes sense.
And on the other hand, someone from the US that considers the demonym of their country to be American because...
there's no other word, they can also say they're American and these are two different things really.
It's not like one person is American and the other person isn't American, right?
It's really the fact that these two people are talking about two different systems, right?
Kind of like how in the European Union people might just use the word Europe.
refer to the EU, but there are countries in the continent of Europe that aren't part of the EU.
And so some people might say, oh, that country is not part of the EU, it's not part of Europe in the political sense, but of course it's Europe in the geographical sense, right?
So it's not exactly like that, but that's kind of a...
correct and one is incorrect.
No, I just want to talk about this because it's a very interesting topic for me.
And before we get started, remember that if you need my help understanding native English speakers when they speak fast, then you'll definitely be interested in my listening practice seminars in which I help you understand the different sound patterns in English.
So...
similar example that I thought of.
So in this case, the term American, when used by someone in US and when used by someone in Colombia, for example, they're referring to two different things, and they're both valid for different reasons.
Right.
And so like I said, I'm not presenting an opinion, I would just like to educate people a little bit.
about this topic because I get a lot of questions from people saying why do you use the term American for people in the US and I want to help educate other people that might not know that other people use the term American not just people in the US.
I want to show them that other people also claim this term.
So I think it's really fascinating.
and I don't get mad about this.
I don't want to make you think I have a really strong opinion and I think that one side is completely wrong or whatever.
No, I just wanted to talk about this because it's come up a lot with different students of mine when I have different conversations.
So I think it's a really fascinating topic and it's good to...
see the other viewpoint if you have one of the two viewpoints, right?
Okay, that's all for today.
I hope that you enjoyed this episode and that it was interesting for you.
Remember that you can get my training to help you understand native speakers when they speak fast.
You can join my membership to get my listening practice seminars.
The link is down below in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And
that you can get my new podcast, in which I've talked to people from all over the country about really interesting topics.
This is great practice for those of you who wanna listen to two people speaking, and not just one.
So the link is also down below, that's patreon.com slash US Conversations.
And as always, please share this podcast with your friends and family members, and give it a five star rating and red.
If you want those seminars, make sure to join my membership.
The link is down below in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you want my new podcast, in which I talk to different English teachers from around the country about different topics, then make sure to sign up for my US conversations podcast.
The link is also in the description below.
That's patreon.
and as always, please share this podcast with anyone else you know who's learning English, and please give it a five-star rating on Spotify or Apple Podcasts and Write Review.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about the term of Mary.
This controversial topic.
I say controversial because when I use this term to describe myself or people from my country, the US, some students of mine, some people in different countries, they take exception to this.
The term take exception to something.
means that you disagree with something.
You don't agree with it.
So some people take exception to my usage of this term to refer exclusively to people from the US.
Why is that?
Many of you probably don't understand why and in the US almost everybody here would be completely perplexed.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 104 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great and I hope that your English learning journey is going well.
I hope that this podcast has been a very useful resource for you.
And remember that if this podcast has become a little bit easy for you, then it's time.
for you to try out my advanced podcast.
If you're interested in that, you can become a listening time family member and you'll receive two new advanced podcast episodes every month.
In those episodes, I speak at normal speed.
I speak fast, like native speakers normally speak, and of course, you have the transcript.
So this will help you get used to fast English and...
the essay, we have to learn how to do all that.
So we learned that in school and I think we start to do more essay writing in middle school and high school, especially in high school.
That's where we do more essay writing.
We have to read different books in our English class and then write about those books, write different essays about...
the books that we read.
And then I also studied English in college.
My major was English.
Remember that in English the word major refers to the subject that you study in college.
Okay, so my major was English.
And because of that I did a lot of essay writing in college.
I had to write.
I don't know how many essays but I wrote quite...
a few and so that was something that I already had to know how to do very well because if I hadn't known how to do that it would have been very hard for me to get good grades in college because I had to write a lot of essays.
So most people don't like writing essays, however for me it was always fairly easy because it was like I said.
We have like a formula of how to write essays and I always felt that it was pretty easy to follow this formula.
So for me that was never a big deal, but most other people struggled with essay writing when they were in school.
So I remember friends of mine, other classmates that heated writing essays because for them it seemed really hard.
And...
me I never understood why it was that hard because it was just following the formula.
You don't have to be super creative to get boot grades on your essays in the US.
You just have to write it the correct way.
So that was never too hard for me and I actually worked as an essay tutor for about a year or a little less when I was in college.
So I actually...
helped foreigners who were living in the US and who were taking ESL classes in college ESL stands for English as a second language they were taking these classes and they had to write a lot of essays so I had to help them with their essays and help them structure these essays so as I already mentioned native English speakers
struggle a lot with essay writing in school.
So you can imagine that people that don't speak English as their first language, they struggle even more.
So that was something that I had to help them with and help them get good grades on their essays.
All right, now let's talk about creative writing.
So when I was younger, I did some creative writing as a kid and
even older when I was an adult, even when I was in college.
But I remember when I was pretty young, maybe nine, ten years old, something like that.
I remember writing different superhero stories.
My friend and I wanted to write different stories with different superheroes that we invented.
And I remember having so much fun with that and writing those stories.
I don't have those
stories anymore.
I wish I did.
It would be really funny to look back and see what type of writing I did as a kid.
But unfortunately I don't have those stories anymore, but I have memories of writing those stories and having a lot of fun writing.
And so that was something I enjoyed as a kid.
And as an adult, I also liked creative writing.
and I always tried to start writing a book and I tried this like maybe three or four times and I never finished writing any of these books, unfortunately, but I always got through a few chapters maybe.
I think the most that I ever wrote was maybe one quarter of a book, one third of a book, but I never finished that.
It will help your ears become accustomed to what English really sounds like when you go out and actually talk to English speakers in different situations.
So that will be a helpful resource for you if you want to reach a more advanced level of listening.
And as I mentioned in the last episode, if you're a Spanish speaker and you're interested in reading fiction in English, then you can try out more.
I was never that satisfied with what I was writing so maybe someday I'll be able to finish writing that fiction book that I always dreamed of writing when I was younger.
However, as you know, I did just publish a collection of short stories, but of course this book has a different purpose than the books that I've tried to write before.
This book is fiction, of course.
It's a collection of three short stories.
However, the goal with that book was to help Spanish speakers who want to read in English.
So it's not exactly the book I would write if I were just writing for English speakers, for example.
So it's not the same thing as what I was trying to do.
earlier on in my adulthood and I think that later on in life I might try to achieve that goal that I never achieved before and write a novel for English speakers.
So we'll see.
Hopefully I do it at some point.
And next I want to talk about writing letters.
If you're really young you might not have any experience with writing letters.
because it's not something that a lot of people do nowadays.
But when I was young, it was still something that people did.
I wrote a few letters to different friends that lived in different cities.
I remember doing this a little bit when I was younger, but this kind of dined out as I got older.
In English, when we say that something dies out, we're saying that it disappears.
it goes away.
So that practice died out as I got older and nowadays I don't think it's that common to write a letter by hand, mail it to someone in English when we say that you do something by hand.
We just mean that you do it with your hand manually.
You don't type it on the computer or whatever.
So nowadays rarely see people write.
letters by hand, but I think it's pretty cool that people used to do this.
It feels very personal and intimate to have a pencil in your hand and write a letter to someone.
I always liked that feeling.
I enjoyed writing those letters when I was younger.
However, nowadays I don't think I have any reason to do that anymore.
Now you can still write letters.
on the computer, but you usually just consider those to be emails, which brings me to the next category of writing, which is email writing.
I think that this type of writing is something that we all need to work on and get better at because it's an essential skill.
We all need to write emails.
It's something that we all have to do, some of us more than others.
But many people have to do this all the time because of their job.
And even if you don't have a job that requires you to write many emails, it's still necessary to write emails for other reasons.
You might be writing an email regarding some process that you're going through with the government or you might be contacting some company.
or whatever it may be, this is something that all of us should try to get better at.
Because if you don't know how to write an email properly, the other person might get a bad impression of you.
So in English, when we say that someone gets a bad impression of someone, we're saying that they have a bad feeling or bad image about someone else.
based on what the other person did.
So we don't want the other person to have a bad impression of us.
So it's important to learn how to properly write an email, how to format it, and how to spell correctly, and make sure to proofread the email for any mistakes and make sure that we're doing.
book which I wrote.
It's a collection of three short mystery stories written in English and translated into Spanish.
So of course if that's something that's interesting for you then you can buy that and use that as an introduction into the world of reading in English.
So the link to that is in the episode description as well.
So when I was recording the last
things correctly.
By the way, to proofread something means to read something again to try to detect errors and correct those errors.
So when we write emails or anything else, it's a good practice to proofread and make sure that you didn't write anything incorrectly.
So I think email writing is very important for all.
of us.
Next, let's talk about writing texts.
So texts are maybe the most common type of writing nowadays.
And when I say the word text, I'm including messages that we send in messaging apps through normal SMS text messages, I messages, anything from our phone where we're sending messages.
to other phones in that way.
So in general we tend to use the word text when we talk about that type of message.
So texting is the most common type of writing that many people do nowadays.
I'm sure a lot of you would agree with that that you write more texts than you do other things because a lot of us are in a constant community.
communication with our friends and family members and people are always writing us messages and we're responding to them.
And texts are different from these other categories of writing because texts are very informal compared to other types of writing.
Of course sometimes you have to send a more formal style of text message, but for the most part, texts.
tend to be less formal so you can add more of your personality, more of your own style, and you can abbreviate words and things like that.
In English, when you say that you abbreviate something, that means that you take a word and you make it shorter.
So we do that all the time.
We're going to be right text messages.
And so this is...
the type of writing that doesn't really require any Structure you can do it however you want and so there's really no right or wrong way to text You just text however you want but I'm sure some of you have Preferences about what type of texts you like to receive Some people might think that other people's texts look ugly Because of the way that they
abbreviate words or spell words wrong or whatever.
You know sometimes we can still get a bad impression of someone based on how they send text messages.
So that might still be something important but it's not nearly as important as emails usually.
And another type of writing is journal writing.
This is something that I haven't really done.
I'll admit to that, but I think I'd like to do this in the future.
It's something that seems to be beneficial, in my opinion.
I think it sounds interesting to do this.
I'd like to collect my thoughts and put them down on a piece of paper and be able to kind of articulate the things I'm thinking or just write about what I did that day, how I felt.
what I learned, etc.
And I think that this is a good way to remember things from the past.
So if I write a journal entry today and then I forget everything that I did today and then a year later I read this journal entry, it can spark my memory and I can remember the things that I did.
In English when we say that something...
sparks your memory.
We're saying that something causes you to remember something from the past.
So this is a way that we can spark our memory and remember something that we did before.
And I'm sure some of you keep journals and you write different things in them.
And I'm sure you see different benefits to this.
And I think I mentioned in one of my earliest episodes that it would.
episode about reading in English.
It made me also want to talk a little bit about writing.
I've always liked writing and it's always been something interesting for me.
So that last episode made me want to talk about this topic in today's episode.
So that's what we're going to talk about today.
We're going to talk about writing and writing in different types of contexts, different things.
be interesting for me to also keep a dream journal.
Some people have a journal where they write down what they dreamed the night before because we tend to forget our dreams very quickly after we wake up.
I'm sure this has happened to you before where you dream something.
It's really vivid and interesting and then after a few hours after you wake up you can't even...
remember what you dreamed.
So that's something that we can prevent if we keep a dream journal and it might be interesting to go back and look at our different dreams that we had.
I don't know if there are a lot of benefits to that, but for me I find the idea kind of interesting.
So that's why I mentioned that.
And one other type of writing I wanted to bring up is writing in a foreign language.
By the way, the phrase over bring up in English just means mention.
So I wanted to bring this up because this is a language podcast and I'm sure some of you would like to get better at writing in English.
Writing and speaking are two completely different skills, right?
So just because you speak English well doesn't mean you can write.
well, unfortunately.
And so this is a separate skill that we have to train.
And I can see this in my own language learning that when I speak a language comfortably, that doesn't mean that I can write well.
And it's a little frustrating because I don't really know how to spell certain words.
I don't know how to maybe punctuate.
correctly in that language because maybe the punctuation is different from the punctuation in English.
So I felt that frustration of not being able to write super well in foreign languages, but I think it's something we can get better at if we read in foreign languages.
I think that's one of the best ways to do this.
And I talked about this in the last episode how.
reading in English will definitely help your writing skills.
It won't magically make you an amazing writer, but it will help you see how sentences are properly structured, punctuated, and how words are spelled in English.
It just helps your overall knowledge of the written language.
So that's one of the best reasons to read in English or in any other.
language that you're learning.
Alright, why don't we stop there for today?
Speaking of reading in English, if you're interested in my book and you're a Spanish speaker who wants to read in English, then make sure to click on the link to the Amazon page.
That's in the episode description and it will take you to the product page on Amazon and you can buy that ebook if you're interested in that.
And if you want my advanced episodes, remember to become a listening time family member, so that you can receive two new advanced episodes every month, in which I speak at normal speed.
So that's what you need if you want to become advanced listening.
And if you like this podcast, please give it 5 star rating, and write a review, and share it with anyone else you know who's learning English.
Alright.
that people write.
So I hope that this episode will be interesting for you.
And of course you have the transcript available in the episode description below the episode.
So click on that if you need it.
And if you like this podcast please share it with anyone else you know who's learning English.
And please give it a five-star rating and brighter review.
Alright let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about writing.
So the first type of writing I want to talk about is writing essays.
So in the US, we have to write a lot of essays in school.
I think that we start writing essays at a pretty young age.
I remember writing very basic essays when...
I was in elementary school.
By the way, the term elementary school in the U.S. refers to the first level of school.
So from first grade to sixth grade, usually, is elementary school.
So I remember doing a little bit of writing during my elementary school years and I think we started writing a few essays during that time.
to learn the structure of how to write an essay.
Because in the US we have a very particular format of how to write an essay.
It's like a structure or a formula that you're supposed to follow.
So if you're a good writer and you write very good and interesting sentences, let you don't know.
the formula of how to write an essay in the US, then unfortunately you still won't get a perfect score even if you're a good writer because you have to follow this formula.
So that's something that we need to learn in school.
We need to learn what each paragraph is supposed to contain how we're supposed to structure our different ideas within.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 131 of the Listening Time Podcast.
Today we're going to talk about a topic that I love.
It's one of my favorite topics and I think that this episode is going to be very interesting for you.
We're going to talk about English pronunciation.
So, this is a very relevant topic for all of you because if you're listening to me, this means that you're learning English.
So pronunciation is probably the element of English that is talked about the least.
It's probably the element that is the least focused on when you learn English with
Of course, if you learned as a kid or even as a teenager, yeah, you can achieve that level.
Many people achieve that level, especially if you learned as a kid.
Well, you can just become a native speaker, of course.
However, I'm talking to you guys who most of you are adults and you're learning English as a foreign language.
And so you have this you
challenge of learning English as an adult and trying to improve the way that you speak and your pronunciation.
So that's the first thing that I wanted to mention is that it's really hard to sound like a native speaker if you're learning as an adult.
So first thing you need to do is lower your expectations.
Okay.
So
So why is English pronunciation so hard?
Well the main reason is because in English stress is everything.
Stress is king.
English is what we call a stress-timed language.
Basically, what that means is that we have more or less the same amount of time between
syllables.
So even if you have a word or a phrase where there is a stress syllable and then three unstressed syllables and then another stressed syllable, that time between the stressed syllables would be pretty much the same as if you had another word or another phrase or one stressed syllable, one unstressed syllable.
stress syllable.
Let me give you an example.
So if I say the phrase, sadly, no.
In that phrase, I have three syllables, sadly, no.
So the way I would say that is I would stress the first syllable.
I would have emphasis on sad, not on ble.
I don't say sadly, I say sadly, right?
So
So I stress that first syllable and I stress no, sadly no.
So stress and then not as much stress and then stress.
And so you can hear that pretty clearly, right?
However, if I say the phrase unfortunately no.
Now I have stress on 4, on 4, genetically.
But then all of the next three syllables after it are all syllables that don't have a lot of stress.
And then the word no is stressed.
So listen again, unfortunately no.
So that amount of time between the four and the no is pretty much the same as the amount of time in the phrase sadly no.rait
Lee, in the word sad, has pretty much the same amount of time that we use to say it as the last three syllables of unfortunately.
So because of that rule, there are many times when syllables are said really fast and really short.
So listen to the two one more time.
Unfortunately, no.
So you can hear how fast and how short the syllables are on the word unfortunately.
Right?
So that's an example of what a stressed-timed language is.
So the opposite of a stressed-timed language would be a syllable-timed language.
So if you speak Spanish, for example, you speak a syllable-timed language.
So, each syllable has a pretty similar amount of time that it takes to pronounce that syllable.
You don't have these big differences in the length of syllables.
In English, an unstressed syllable might be one-third or sometimes one-fourth the length of a stressed syllable.
So, each syllable has a pretty similar amount of time that it takes to pronounce that syllable.
teacher or in school pronunciation is a hard topic, especially English pronunciation.
But I love it.
It's one of my favorite aspects of teaching English, as you can probably tell by now, especially if you've joined my membership because you've seen that I do a lot of training in practice.
a huge difference.
However, in a syllable-time language, like Spanish, you don't have that difference.
Right?
Stress syllables and unstressed syllables don't have a big difference in how long it takes to say them.
So that's why if you're a Spanish speaker, for example, and you are trying to speak English like a native.
It can be very hard to replicate this stress timing because you're not accustomed to reducing and shortening all of these unstressed syllables.
That's not something that you do in Spanish.
So that's the difference between a stress-timed and a syllable-timed language.
And so in a stress-timed language...
When a syllable is not stressed, it can often become reduced.
So, for example, the word F-O-R is usually not stressed in English.
So, we don't pronounce that as OR.
We say, FUR.
Right?
I say, for example.
I don't say, for example.
Period.
There's a difference.
So that's an example of how an unstressed syllable or word becomes reduced.
And that happens all the time in English.
That happens in virtually every sentence that we say.
These words or syllables that aren't stressed can often become reduced.
Their pronunciation changes.
Because the vowel is shortened.
Okay, so that's a stress in summary in a nutshell.
That can make English a very very difficult language to pronounce like a native speaker.
And besides stress, there's also the issue of sounds, individual sounds that can be hard.
because they're different in English than they are in your language.
We have different sounds in English than the sounds in Spanish, for example.
So besides stress, you also have to deal with these new sounds that are unfamiliar to you.
It's not natural for you to make these sounds.
So there are other things.
things that are difficult, but really the two main things that make English so hard to pronounce is the stress, number one, and number two, some of the sounds might be hard.
So those are the biggest challenges that you will face.
So how do you improve your pronunciation?
I just talked about pronunciation.
and about difficulties with English pronunciation.
But now the question is, how do you actually improve in this area of your English learning?
Well, it's important to note that pronunciation doesn't improve the same way as fluency or listening or vocabulary.
Those things...
improve in a more natural way.
And if you've been listening to me for a long time, you probably know by now that I'm an advocate of allowing yourself to fly the language in a natural way.
By the way, when you say that you're an advocate of something, we're saying that you support some idea or something.
something.
So I'm an advocate of allowing yourself to acquire the language naturally, mainly through listening, but also reading.
So when you listen and read, you acquire listening skills and reading skills, of course, you acquire vocabulary and you even acquire fluency because you have full phrases.
with the sounds of English.
So I really like this topic and I want to talk about English pronunciation in general and about the difficulties with pronunciation and about how you can improve your pronunciation.
So this should be a great topic for today.
Before we start, remember to join my US Conversations Podcast if you want to.
and collocations in your brain that you can reproduce once you've heard them enough.
Okay?
So those things improve naturally.
However, pronunciation doesn't improve as naturally as these other elements.
Okay?
So pronunciation requires a more concentrated effort in order to...
improve it.
Listening will improve your pronunciation.
That's for sure.
If you listen a lot and if you listen very intently, that will help you improve your pronunciation no doubt.
However, beyond that, if you want to actually have a big improvement in your pronunciation and improve it faster.
then the key to this is that you need to notice your mistakes.
You need to notice the real sounds of English.
You need to notice how native speakers say something versus how you are expecting them to say it.
And once you begin to notice these things, you start to
shift your understanding and your expectation of what things are supposed to sound like.
By the way, the word shift just means that you change.
So when you start to notice these things, then your whole perception of sounds and this whole element of English will
change, you'll start to be able to identify the difference between how you say something and how a native speaker says something.
Okay, so noticing is key and how do you notice?
Well, this is also something that doesn't come naturally most of the time.
It does to an extent, but it...
It's something that comes more with practice and training, actually.
So for example, my English pronunciation seminars and my listening practice seminars are a great way to start to notice things because I focused the whole seminar on showing you different patterns that you need to notice.
And I help you.
change your perception of what things are supposed to sound like.
So for example, my seminars could be a great way for you to start to notice these things and you get those if you join my membership of course.
And just being with a teacher and working with a teacher who is trained to help you with your pronunciation.
is another way to start to notice these things.
A teacher can point these things out to you and help you notice them.
By the way, when you say that you point something out, we're saying that you indicate or identify it so that the other person notices it.
So a teacher can help you do that.
seminars can help you do that.
And then once you've been trained a little bit, then you can start to do this on your own.
And you can start to notice more things by yourself.
You won't notice everything, but you'll start to notice more.
So it's good to get this type of training to start noticing on your own.
And when it comes to noticing...
and focusing on mistakes.
I want to point out that there are two categories of pronunciation mistakes.
So there are mistakes that are easily noticeable and fixable and then there are mistakes that aren't.
So let me explain this.
So a lot of mistakes can be categorized as mistakes that are easily noticeable and fixable and then there are mistakes that aren't.
So let me explain this.
to start practicing with real conversations between me and other Americans.
This is what you need if you can already understand me pretty well and you need to reach that next level where you can understand any native speaker when they're talking to you or when they're talking to other people.
So if you want to join that you can click on the link in the episode description, Allahu Zatih.
can easily notice and fix if someone points them out to you.
You probably won't notice them on your own, but a teacher or my seminar, for example, might point it out and then you can fix it.
So for example, things that are related to stress are actually pretty fixable.
For example, within one word.
you might be stressing the wrong syllable.
For example, the country, Japan, in this word, the second syllable is stressed.
Japan.
However, many English learners stress the wrong syllable.
They say, Japan.
And that's wrong.
But it's very easy to notice if a teacher points that out to you.
And it's very easy to fix.
You just stress the other syllable.
instead of Japan, you say Japan.
It's not hard.
So that's an example.
And stress within a sentence.
For example, instead of saying, I want it, but we would say is, I want it in most cases.
So instead of stressing the I, we would stress the one.
I want it.
I want it.
Right?
If someone points that up to you, that you're stressing the wrong word, it's pretty easy to notice that and then to say it correctly.
That doesn't mean that you'll say it correctly next time, but in this moment you can say it correctly and start to register that in your brain.
You can register that error there and maybe notice it.
little bit more in the future.
Also with skipped syllables, for example, in the word family, the eye is siphoned.
We don't say family.
We say family.
That's something that the teacher can point out to you and it's pretty easy to fix.
Just don't say the middle syllable.
It's just family.
Like it's not several.
It's several.
You just skip the syllable.
So if someone points that out to you, it's pretty easy to fix.
Also certain letter combinations like the TU can be pronounced CHU sometimes, like situation and DU can be with a J sound, like graduate.
Or sometimes you're just saying...
wrong vowel.
Instead of saying priority, maybe you say priority, and you just need to change the pre to prime.
Or maybe you say notice, but the correct pronunciation is notice.
You just need to change the a to an o notice.
So those are examples of fixable errors.
that are very easy to identify if you're a trained teacher who can actually teach pronunciation, of course.
So in my seminars, for example, I point these things out or other teachers who teach pronunciation can easily identify this and you can fix it.
However, there are other pronunciation mistakes that are my...
harder to identify and fix and these have to do with your accent.
So your accent refers to the way that you pronounce English sounds based on the sounds in your own language.
So for example there are certain vowel sounds in English that you don't have in Spanish.
For example, so like in the different vowels in the words.
hit and heat.
That might be hard for you to even hear the difference, right?
Or laugh versus love or food versus foot.
Those different vowel sounds in those words might be really hard for you to identify and pronounce differently because some of these are sounds that you don't have in your language.
So because of that it's harder to...
episode that's patreon.com slash us conversations.
And don't forget to join my membership and specifically if you become a listening time super member or any of the higher tiers, then you'll get my pronunciation training.
You'll get my pronunciation seminars where I actually train you and help you with your pronunciation.
So you can go down and click.
to hear them and harder to fix them.
So there are many other examples that I could give, but I think you get the point.
Right?
There are some errors that are not easy for you to hear and they're not easy for you to fix.
And you have to accept the fact that you're not going to get rid of your accent very quickly.
It's going to stay for a long time.
And usually...
it stays forever, but you can reduce it over time.
But it takes a long time.
Okay?
So when it comes to improving your pronunciation, I would say that you should focus mostly on the fixable errors.
Okay?
The ones that are very easy to notice and fix, and if you fix those errors, your pronunciation...
will improve a lot because there are a lot of fixable errors.
However, when it comes to your accent, you need to have more realistic expectations.
You can also take classes with an accent, coach, a professional who can help you with this, but this is a very specialized field, of course.
So that's pretty much...
what I wanted to talk about today.
I hope this gave you a good idea of why pronunciation is difficult in English and how you can improve it.
And of course, remember to sign up for my membership if you want my pronunciation training, specifically if you become a super member or anything higher than that, then you get my pronunciation seminars.
even just with a listening practice seminars, this will also help you with your pronunciation.
So if you want my training, make sure to sign up.
The link is in the description below this episode.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And of course, sign up for my new podcast as well.
If you want to practice listening with real conversations, that's patreon.com slash us.
click on the link in the description below to sign up for that.
If you're interested, that's patreon.com slash listening time.
And of course, if you like this podcast, please give it a five star rating and writer review and share it with anyone else you know who's learning English.
That really helps me out and it will help them out too.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what?
time it is, it's listening talk.
Okay, let's talk about pronunciation.
Specifically, English pronunciation and even more specifically, American English pronunciation.
So, English is one of the hardest languages to pronounce like a native speaker.
All languages have their challenges when it comes to pronunciation.
However, if you want to speak like an American, for example, and you didn't learn English as a child, that is really, really, really hard.
I can't even emphasize enough how hard that is.
In my whole life, I don't think I've ever heard a person who learned English as an adult
and speaks exactly the same way that an American speaks.
For example, I don't think I've ever seen that in my whole life.
I've seen a couple people who have gotten close.
We've gotten very close, actually.
But I don't think I've ever seen or met a person who sounds exactly like a native speaker if they learned as an adult.
The other day I wasn't really sure what to do, so I looked on my phone at places where I go for the afternoon To keep myself entertained I saw that there was a cat cafe in my city and I had never been to one so I didn't really know what it was about I looked it up online and I saw that the first one was in Taiwan and it started
in 1990s and became popular in Japan after that first one in Taiwan.
There are quite a lot of cafes now all around the world and the idea is that you can go to one of these cafes and spend time with cats.
So I think it's a perfect activity for people that don't have cats at home.
like to go to these places and there is a limited amount of people who can go in at a time so that the cats don't get stressed.
There is obviously an entry fee to help cover the costs of caring for the cats and I have seen that is different for each place that you go to.
something like that.
on a cat cafe, they have a different system.
The one that I went to had a fixed rate of £7 per hour which I thought was quite cheap.
This included hot drink as well, so you can ask for coffee or a cup of tea for example, but it didn't include food, so if you wanted to buy a
sandwich you would have to pay extra.
I have seen that in other cat cafes you pay per minute and from when I've gone to other activities like this I think that this is not as good because you're constantly thinking about how much time you've spent there and you feel rushed like you have to leave in 20 minutes.
because if not it's going to be very expensive.
You're more aware of the time, whereas if you pay seven pounds, know that you have an hour, then you don't have to look at your phone or your watch all the time to see what time it is.
Just in case you spend an hour and a half there without realizing, which could be quite expensive.
Across Sir ...I've seen since...
all night to this cat cafe.
Second time that I went all of the cats were asleep and I talked about with this with the people that were there and they said they depends on the time.
If you go in the morning then they are more awake than if you go in the afternoon.
Cats are not turn off but their cat cafe isn't open at night.
So you can't spend time with them.
So I think it's best to check what time it is before you go to make sure the cats are going to be awake because like I said before, you aren't allowed to stroke the cats that are sleeping.
So it's not really worth it if you go and they're sleeping because you'll just start there looking and you can't interact with them.
If you have enjoyed this video, please...
and I'm missing having one.
When you go to the cat cafe, the cats are roaming freely within the cafe, so they're not encoders, they're laying around, laying on sofas, on a table, on the floor, wherever they want to.
And visitors can pet or stroke them, play with them, or just watch them in this relaxing environment.
There are some things that you're not allowed to do because in the end they want to keep the cats safe and stress-free.
They don't want the cats to be scared of the people who are visiting or stressed at all.
There are a few rules such as you are not allowed to disturb cats if they are sleeping.
So if they are awake, you can go and stroke them.
not if they're asleep and I think that's quite there.
You have to handle them gently, so you have to stroke them gently and you have to follow high-dune practices like washing your hands before you go in mid-the-cats.
As it is a cafe, there are menus of drinks and light snacks so you can have
coffee, a cup of tea and maybe a sandwich but you can't have a big meal there.
A lot of these cat cafes partner with animal shelters so that you can adopt the cats that are at the cafe.
So if you go to the cafe and you fall in love with one of those cats you can adopt which is quite a nice
way of doing it because I think it's different when you're using social media and you see a picture of a cat who needs re-homing then you don't know what the cat is like whether it's very timid or it's crazy so it's nice to go to the cafe meet the cat get to know them and then choose the one that's
is best for you.
If you're looking for a younger cat or more axe cat then you would be able to pick out the right one.
And if you're an older person and want a calm cat then you could pick the cat that is always sleeping, always lying down at the back and not playing around and following everyone.
I think that when you go into one of these...
cafes you soon know which type of cat you would like to take home depending on your personality.
The atmosphere inside the cat cafe is quite calm.
Spending time with cats can actually reduce stress and provide comfort.
So when you were there you feel calm and relax.
and some people even take a book to read while they are there.
You might decide to sit on one of the sofas with a cat on your lap and read a book or chat with a friend.
One of the issues is that you have to reserve before you go, especially during peak times because a lot of people...
I'm going to ask you about your friends.
Have you got a lot of friends?
I haven't got a lot of close friends.
I've got a lot of people that I could call a friend.
If I've met them, I will remember that and they might think of me as a friend.
But I've only got a small number of close friends, people that I am regularly in contact with.
Who do you consider to be your best friend?
My best friend is called Chris.
He's only three days older than me, but we went to school together and we were friends throughout school He's a computer programmer and he's always been interested in the same things as me football music and general sports How often do you see him?
I don't see him that often.
He now lives in Houston, Texas in the United States with Meridon But I do see him every time he
flies home to the UK.
A visit is more of a quite regular that we meet up and we go for a drink in a pub and do activities together.
And do you text him often with his, with telling him news what you're doing?
Not very often.
We usually exchange emails and we provide updates on what we are doing.
And who are your other friends?
My second best friend is Paul.
I've known him since I went to university.
We were on the same course and we shared a house but we lived there and I've always kept in contact with him and we have similar sort of interest.
And do you see him, Martin?
We meet up whenever we can.
He lives quite away from where I live so it is difficult to actually meet up.
But again, we keep in contact.
contact and we know what each other are doing.
So have you got any friends who you go out with regularly, who you meet up with or do sport with?
I've got a couple of friends that I do sport with.
One is called Andy and the other one is called Luns.
We go to play five side football together, which is great fun.
We do this once a week.
It's usually on a Tuesday, but sometimes they do change.
you to saturday and we play in a league against other teams.
We're not very good but we do enjoy playing and after the match is finished we go to a local bar to have a drink and to reminisce about things that we have done with us.
And are they both the similar age to you are they younger?
They're both slightly younger than me.
They're a little fitter and they play football.
lot better than what I do.
Oh all your friends married or are any single?
Five of my friends are married, what is single?
And that is one of the reasons why we can't meet up very often because we've all got family commitments.
It would be nice one day for all of us to meet up and it's a possibility for a weekend and do something adventurous together or something different.
we would all enjoy.
And where would you go to meet new friends?
I think I would meet new friends if I would change my workplace then I would meet some different people.
I could go to pub and chat to other people there.
Sometimes pubs up quiz nights which is a good opportunity to meet other people and find out what interests people have and possibly just
Hello, I'm going to ask you a few questions about your lifestyle.
My first question is, do you like sports?
I like watching sports on TV, but I'm not someone who likes to play sport.
I've never been good at it.
So have you never played the team sport?
Only at school when we had PE or games lessons when you had to do it?
But...
No, I've never enjoyed playing team sports at all.
Do you have favourite teams that you watch?
I have favourite football teams and favourite cricket teams, depending on who's playing.
But I haven't got one team who I support.
I would have a favourite out of two teams, but not one team that I support.
Can you describe?
to do both.
Sometimes you feel like sitting down and just watching anything that's on TV.
Another time you want to have a more relaxing evening, you can just open your favourite book and read for as long as you want to or go to bed early and sit and read in bed.
That's really nice thing to do.
So what kind of books or TV programmes do you like most?
I like interesting books.
I like thought-provoking books.
Nothing scary or fluffy romantic stories, but something where you might learn something about people and characters and an interesting story.
That's what I like best.
And with television it's the same really.
I like to learn new things but nothing too heavy and I really don't have light scary scary TV- Provoking.
or films or scary books, that's just not my thing.
What would be your dream job for the future?
Well, when I was younger I always wanted to work in the zoo.
I would have worked cleaning out the animals and working with the animals, but I'm a bit old for that now I think.
But I would like to work in a zoo, maybe in a cafe, or even cleaning up around the zoo.
around the park so that I could see the animals and interact with the animals but it wouldn't be too much of a physical job.
What has been your favourite colony?
My favourite holiday was in Tunisia because it was something that I'd never experienced before.
It's my first holiday abroad and I was amazed at how warm and how hot it was and the people...
spoke a different language and they dressed differently.
It was amazing.
We visited a market and it was so colourful and all different types of foods.
It was really a memorable holiday because really it was my first trip abroad.
Have you ever visited the United States of America?
No I haven't.
Like I said before I don't really like long clothes.
lights, although I've never actually been on one, but I imagine that I won't like it.
And I'm not really interested in America.
I suppose it's an interesting place to go because the culture is quite different than in the UK, but there's no specific area of America that I would like to visit.
Okay, thank you very much for answering my questions.
job.
Well I used to work in a bank and it was quite an easy job and you had to talk to people a lot.
They used to come into pay-in money or to withdraw money and it was all computerized so it was quite an easy job to do and I enjoyed it a lot.
If you could travel anywhere in the world where would you like to go to?
I'd like to go to Canada, although I don't really like flying long distances, but I know that the scenery is very beautiful there, they have enormous trees and especially in the autumn it's really nice and really colourful.
Also I've heard that it's very clean country, I don't know if that's all of the country of Canada, but yeah I would enjoy going there, although I don't enjoy long-haul flights.
I'd like to go to Canada, but yeah I would like to go there, but yeah I would like to go there,
What is something that you enjoy doing with your family or friends?
Well one thing I really enjoy doing is having a summer family barbecue.
When the weather is so hot and you can invite all your friends and family around and we have a really big table in garden and about 12 or more chairs and everyone sits at the table and friends bring food.
So one person will bring salads, another bring desserts and other people will bring savory food.
So we have a real mixture of foods for everybody to enjoy and then all the children can play in the garden and they can sit on the floor with blankets and in the evening we have a fire pit and we all sit and roast much mellows around the fire pit and have blankets.
and it's a really good evening.
We usually make a playlist of 70s or 80s music and we have a real fun day and evening.
What is the best thing that you can cook?
Well I'm not a very good cook but I like to make a really nice salad in the summer.
One thing I'm very good at making is a stew where I cut up a lot of different vegetables.
and put them in a pot with liquid and tomato sauce and the flavour is really rich.
I would normally put potatoes, carrots, onions, maybe courgettes and peppers and if it's in season I would put parsnips and it's lovely to eat on a cold winter's evening.
You have a warm pot of stew.
It's really good.
What do you do in your free time?
In my free time I usually like to make things.
I enjoy all types of crafts, knitting, sewing, crochet.
I'm not very good at painting, it's not something I enjoy, but I like to be creative with materials and wool and I usually make soft toys.
That's my main home.
hobby is craft, but I also enjoy walking.
On a nice day I like to go walking to local landmarks and to take photos.
I suppose another of my hobbies is posting photos on Instagram and Facebook for other people to enjoy.
Do you prefer to read or to watch TV?
I like both.
I think it's good.
I'm going to ask you some, would you rather questions?
They're quite strange, but go with it and see what happens.
First one, would you rather have tiny feet and huge hands or huge feet and tiny hands?
I would prefer to have tiny feet and huge hands.
I think hands were a lot better doing different jobs.
and feet are not quite so necessary unless it's difficult to walk.
But if you had huge hands it might be difficult to do day-to-day tasks like pick up a cup, tea or something like that.
I think you would get used to it.
It depends how big your hands are going to be.
Well it says huge.
Well is that twice the size of your normal hand?
Or is it 50% bigger?
I don't know.
right to be a kangaroo jumping.
That's funny I would prefer to be a waddling penguin.
I'd be exhausted if I was jumping all the day.
I can't imagine being a penguin for a day because now at home would you prefer to have a personal maid who would do everything for you or a personal chef?
I think I would prefer to have a personal maid to all the routine jobs.
that I have to do.
They will be taken away from me and I could concentrate on what I was interested in and I do enjoy cooking so I don't need a chef.
Okay and what type of jobs would have made to do?
What would she do?
She or he do that you don't want to do.
I don't want to clean the house, clean the car, do the washing up and routine jobs like that.
take up a lot of time every day.
Okay.
So in your free time would you prefer to drive a racing car or to fly a helicopter?
I would prefer to drive a racing car.
I don't like flying.
The thought of flying in a helicopter doesn't appeal to me as I think it is a more dangerous thing to do.
I'd rather be in...
control on the land driving a racing car.
Okay.
Now, would you rather only eat hot food or only eat cold food?
I would prefer to only eat hot food.
I enjoy eating hot food.
There's quite a variety of foods which I enjoy eating hot, whereas if food is cold it's not quite so appealing in my life.
Okay, I wonder if it means cold like ice cream cold or just not cooked.
I imagine it might be cooked food that has gone cold so it's in cold potatoes, cold vegetables, salads are okay because they are usually eaten cold but eating meat that is cold, chicken that is cold, no thank you.
I was thinking
cold food I would have salads and sandwiches and I would be quite happy eating cold food like that but not like you say hot food that has gone cold like a cold hamburger then then no but sandwiches and salads I think that would be okay I would mind okay now would you rather have wings or a mermaid tail I would much you
rather have wings because then I will be able to fly to different locations and see different places and it would mean that I've got my arms and legs as well but if you've got a mermaid's tail then you are very restricted away as you would only be able to go in water which is quite restricted.
Yeah that's true, that's true.
Regarding food again.
Would you?
rather eat breakfast through every meal or eat dinner for every meal?
I would prefer to eat dinner for every meal because you could choose to have a big meal or a small meal which is a meal then you usually have for dinner whereas breakfast normally you think of cereals and possibly a falling discrativeness and I think that would be very repetitive every day.
It's funny because we're quite opposite because I would prefer breakfast every meal.
So it's funny how we think.
Finally, would you rather get stuck in a lift with five monkeys or get stuck in a lift with 20 people?
I would prefer to be stuck in a lift with 20 people.
Having been in a lift is stuck.
It could be very dangerous.
I think monkeys will get very agitated and possibly do me some harm.
Being stuck in a lift with 20 people is also not a good experience but I think it would be better than being stuck with monkeys.
Yeah, again it depends on the size of the monkeys.
I don't know, I think any one killer is in the small...
I don't know, good answer.
Okay.
Would you rather always shout when you speak or always whisper like, Pee, Pee, Pee, Pee, Pee, Pee.
I'm not an outgoing person, so I would choose to whisper.
I wouldn't like to draw attention to myself by shouting all the time.
I'd rather people listen to me if I spoke in a quiet whisper.
Okay.
Would you rather have 10 mosquito bites
more space could be very troublesome.
And it would depend on the 20 people that you stuck off to.
Well, all people would have different stress levels have been trapped in, left.
It could be a very worrying time.
So yeah, being stuck in the left with 20 people would be an eye option.
Okay, thank you for answering these.
one spider bite.
I think I would rather have one spider bite.
It would be easier to treat and put some spray on it to stop any infections.
That would be better than having 10 mosquito bites, possibly in all over my body.
But aren't spider bites poisonous?
Only some spider bites are poisonous.
So again, is it poisonous?
or isn't it?
Okay now pets would you rather have a pet dragon or a pet unicorn?
I think I would have a pet unicorn.
I think it would be a lot more appealing to people they would like to come and see a unicorn as it would be very unique and I'm sure children would like it too.
And a dragon could be a fire hazard in
your house because dragons breed fire so they're a bit more dangerous than the unicorn and where would you keep your unicorn?
I would rent a field somewhere close to my house keeping it safe and secure and I would look after it and check on it three or four times a day.
I'm going to go what would it eat do you think?
I think unicorn is very similar to horse so it will eat grass and hay.
and vegetables, pans, special, horse feed.
What would a dragon eat?
I think a dragon could eat a lot of things.
It wouldn't be too fussy about what it ate.
Okay.
Now with the weather, would you rather it was always raining or always snowing?
I think I would prefer it if it was always raining.
Because if it does rain a lot, that water runs away.
But if it was always snowing then the snow would build up and eventually it could suffocate me and I wouldn't be able to breathe I thought you would prefer snow Because it snows and stops and then snows again Rather if it's always raining then it's always raining always wet Well, that's what you said always snowing Which means it's 24 hours a day, except that
days a week, 365 days a year and that's what I was thinking.
That's too much to know me, yep, okay.
Now would you prefer or would you rather go to the beach or to the cinema?
I would much rather go to the beach.
I love going to the beach, I love the sand and sea and I'm not particularly keen on watching films, especially in the cinema.
Okay, now this one's a bit funny.
Would you rather spend the day jumping like a kangaroo or waddling like a penguin?
I think it would be quite fun to be jumping all day like a kangaroo.
You could travel long distances and see lots of different things.
As opposed to a penguin waddling very slowly, it wouldn't get me particularly far.
So yeah, I think I'll...
In today's video we're going to talk about the Eurovision Song Contest.
In 2023 it was held in Liverpool, in England.
My mum visited Liverpool while the Eurovision Song Contest was being held.
And she's going to talk about her experience in this video.
In 2027.
the winners of the Eurovision Song Contest were Ukraine, but because the contest couldn't be held in Ukraine in 2023, it was decided that Liverpool would host the competition on their behalf.
I think it was because England came second in 2022, didn't it?
Yes, that's true, and it seemed the obvious.
The winner of the contest this year was Sweden.
Would you like to visit Sweden for next year's final?
No, I don't think so.
I think that we enjoyed it this year because it was in Liverpool and we love Liverpool as a city.
I don't think that it would be the same in another country.
I think it would be very expensive as well, wouldn't it?
Yes.
Yeah.
It's becoming more popular every year.
a choice.
As soon as it was announced that Liverpool was hosting the competition, we had planned that we would visit the city at that time.
You didn't get tickets to go in to what it though, did you?
No, that was impossible.
They sold out very, very quickly.
So what did you do?
We stayed in the city of Liverpool.
and we were able to watch them free events in the city centre and the atmosphere was amazing.
There were people from all over the world in the Fanzone area and everyone was getting along well and enjoying the shows.
How do you have been to Liverpool before?
Yes, we had been a few years ago but at Eurovision time the city...
was very different.
There were a lot of people wearing rightly coloured clothes, people were very happy, very sociable and in the city itself there were pianos that people could play, there were mini stages where people could sing and video themselves singing and in some areas there were benches with flowers where you could take in.
Instagram photos and share them.
So the atmosphere was amazing.
What was your favourite event?
Well there were many bands who were playing and you could watch them for free in the fan zone area.
You just had to queue for quite a while to get in the area and one night we were lucky to see one of our favourite bands called the Lightning Seats.
and it was an amazing concert which was made even better because it was free.
Were there any more famous artists who performed?
Yes, there were quite a lot of British artists, not quite so well known, but there some appeared on the big stage and then there were pop-up stages around the city and they performed there.
It was nice to see a lot of live music.
in the city.
And where were you when you watched the fine more?
Well obviously we couldn't get tickets for the final performance so we went with a group of friends to an area called the Baltic Market where there are various bars and food outlets and there was a great atmosphere and people were singing along and
There were people from all over the world singing along to their country's entry.
And did you enjoy watching the final?
Yes, we did, because we'd seen some of the rehearsals on the big screen in the fan zone, and so we knew a lot of the songs.
And what happened after the contest had finished?
And the day after we noticed...
that the city returned to normal.
Some of the pianos have been removed and pop-up stages and in general people were wearing normal clothing, not the bright pink and yellow clothes they'd been wearing the weekend before.
Was it sad to see it go back to normal?
It was a bit because during Eurovision there was a real bus around the city.
In today's video we're going to talk about hotels.
I'm going to be answering some questions about hotels.
The first question is, which do you prefer to stay in when you travel?
Hotels, hostels or another type of place and why?
Over the years I have stayed in many hotels and other types of accommodation.
And I would say that hotels and apartments are my favourite places to stay when I travel.
I haven't really enjoyed staying at hostels because they are very basic.
They don't usually include breakfast and they are often shared with other people.
So if you are a person who doesn't like sharing their room with strangers, then it's not.
to re-disgusting hotel.
I suppose that's because I usually check the reviews of the hotel before I book it.
I think that it's important to see other people's experiences, read their comments and then make a decision.
Sometimes you see some adverts for really cheap hotels, but they are often too good.
be true.
I think that if I went to a hotel and saw that it was really disgusting, then I would talk with a manager and see if I could get a refund.
I don't think that I would stay there.
The next question is, have you ever ordered room service?
No, I have never ordered room service.
I think that is because when I'm traveling to a different country.
or to a different city, then I don't really like to eat at the hotel.
I prefer to go exploring and find a restaurant that I think I would enjoy.
I don't really see the advantage to having dinner in your room because I imagine that it would smell of food afterwards as well.
I think that you would have to be very tired.
because a lot of hotels have restaurants downstairs so I don't think it take that much effort to get ready and go for a meal because I think it would only take about half an hour or one hour.
The next question is are hotels common in your country and if not where do people stay when they travel?
Yes, staying at a hotel is quite...
common in England.
I usually stay at hotels like Premierin, Trappolort or Holidayin because they have hundreds of hotels throughout the country.
It is quite affordable and you know what to expect.
Generally these rooms are the same all over the country.
The service that they offer.
for is the same as well and really when you're in one of their rooms you could be anywhere in England and you wouldn't know where you are but I like that because I normally stay at hotels when I travel abroad and have to stay at the airport overnight so these hotel brands usually have hotels near the airport
so that you can get a taxi or a bus to the airport and I like to know what to expect because really I'm focused on my holiday abroad and I don't want to have the extra stress of not knowing whether the hotel is going to be comfortable or safe or even dirty.
I've always...
had a positive experience with them, so if you do come to the UK I would recommend these hotels to stay at.
Then when I do go abroad I choose a nice hotel because in the end is a treat for me.
I want to have a nice time at a nice hotel and I won't go for the most basic one.
I like the hotel to have a swimming pool and a spa.
to relax.
Obviously if you're coming to the UK and you're not on a budget then don't go for these hotel options because they are not luxurious, they are just basic, comfortable and good value for money.
And the last question is what is the nicest hotel you have stayed at?
Well the nicest hotel I have stayed at.
That was a five-star hotel in the south of France.
Quite a lot of English people travel to southern France for their holidays because the weather is nice, the beaches are beautiful and there are quite a lot of resorts there.
I stayed at a lovely hotel and my favourite part of it were the gardens which surrounded the swimming pools.
the best option.
It is true that there are some hostels that have individual rooms, but they often have shared bathrooms to keep costs down.
So when I travel for pleasure and not for work, I prefer to spend a bit more money and to stay at a hotel or an apartment.
For example, if I go on holiday...
to France for a week, then I might prefer to say at an apartment which are usually independent and have their own kitchen.
I think that it's quite useful to have your own kitchen when you go on holiday because it can reduce your general costs of that holiday.
If there are three of you and you go out for breakfast, lunch and dinner, then it quickly becomes...
quite expensive because you might have to spend 15 euros per meal per person.
So if you are a person who is travelling on a budget then maybe an apartment would be a good option.
Hotels can have from one star to five stars depending on the facilities that it has.
For example, E is a beautiful.
hotel with room service, a spa, different types of treatment for example, then it might be for a five-star, but if it's just a basic hotel then it might be one or two stars.
So obviously when someone asks me whether I prefer to stay at a hotel or an apartment, I think it all comes down to what hotel?
If it's a four or five-star hotel.
then I would obviously prefer this but if it is a basic hotel and it doesn't have a kitchen then I would prefer an apartment.
The next question is what are the best and worst things about staying in hotels?
I would say that the best thing about staying at a hotel is there is usually a reception and you can check in after a certain...
time but at any time you won't really so if you have to arrive at 3 o'clock or at 11 o'clock at night it doesn't really matter because there will always be your receptionist there.
I know that sometimes when you rent an apartment you have to meet up with the owner of the apartment and collect the keys and it can be more of a hassle.
Another thing that I like is...
about staying hotels is there is a cleaning service.
If you stay at an apartment for two weeks, then you have to clean it yourself.
But if you stay at a hotel, then the cleaners come by and clean the room and bring clean towels and everything that you need.
I would say that a disadvantage of staying at a hotel compared to the hotel.
to a hostel is that they are usually a bit more expensive.
Like I say it depends on the type of hotel that you stay at, but they are usually more expensive and if you're staying for a lot of nights then it can become quite pricey.
The next question is have you ever been to a really disgusting hotel and did you stay or leave?
No I haven't ever been.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 149 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all ready for some English practice and this episode in particular is going to be about English itself in today's episode.
I want to talk.
about how English has changed over the centuries.
And I had this idea and I thought it would be really cool to look at some different verses from the King James Bible, which is from 1611.
So over 400 years ago and I thought it...
native English speakers nowadays can't understand it unless they have studied it before.
So before recording this episode I read an excerpt.
An excerpt is a short part of a book or an article.
I read short excerpt.
from Baeowulf.
This is one of the most famous, if not the most famous works of Old English.
And from this excerpt, I understood maybe 5% of the words.
So that shows you how different Old English was.
from modern English.
So it's almost completely incomprehensible meaning it's not understandable at all even to native English speakers nowadays.
So old English was a different language really and many people make the mistake of using the term old English to
refer to older modern English like English from the 1600s or the 1700s for example.
That's not old English.
That's still modern English.
It's just older than today's English, but the term old English actually refers to...
to an older language that doesn't really resemble today's English.
So just be careful with that phrase, Old English, because many people use it incorrectly.
And then after Old English, there was Middle English from the 12th to the 15th century.
and maybe the most famous or one of the most famous works of literature from this period was the Canterbury Tales and before recording this episode, I also tried to read an excerpt from this work and I understood much more of it than...
a wolf.
So middle English is a lot closer to modern English than old English is.
So middle English has a lot of words that we can still understand nowadays, modern English.
However, there are a lot of words that we don't understand.
So it's still...
a different language kind of.
It's not a different language in the sense that it's Spanish, right?
It's still English, but it can still be very hard to understand for a native English speaker nowadays.
So that was middle English.
And then after that is when modern English was yeah
established, let's say.
And so from that point until now, people have spoken modern English.
However, maybe today, the English that we speak in 2024, this might be considered contemporary English.
It's not a different language.
It's still modern English, but...
If we want to differentiate between the English spoken today and the English spoken in the 1600s, for example, maybe we can use the term contemporary English for today's version of the language.
So that was a little bit of the history of English.
So now I want to...
would be cool to show you how the language has changed a little bit since then.
It hasn't changed that much.
It's still completely understandable if you read the King James Bible nowadays and your native English speaker.
However, there are some interesting changes that we can see.
talk about a few different changes that English has undergone in the past 400 years or so.
By the way, the past participle undergone, this comes from undergo.
This means that you go through some process.
So in this case...
English underwent changes.
It went through this process of changing.
So there are many examples that I could point out.
The phrasal verb point out means that you highlight something.
You draw people's attention to that thing.
So I could point out a lot of examples, I chose...
Just a few because my time is limited.
So maybe the first thing that people will notice if they read something from this 1600s or a little earlier.
Maybe they'll notice some different pronouns being used.
Pronouns like...
Thou thee thy thyme These pronouns that start with TH and then also the pronoun ye Y e So let me read you a verse from the King James Bible this is Romans 10 9 chapter 10 verse 9 and this has
three of these different pronouns in this verse.
So listen while I read it, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth, the Lord Jesus, and shall believe in thy heart that God have raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.
So you'll notice that we have some interesting pronouns there.
We have thou, that if thou shalt confess, we have.
Thy, thy mouth, and we also have thine, thine heart.
You might be wondering what those mean.
Well, in the past, English distinguished between the second person singular and the second person plural.
What does that mean?
If you're talking to one...
person, you're talking in the second person singular, but if you're talking to more than one person, you're talking to the second person plural.
So in the second person singular, in the past, in English, people would use these TH pronouns.
Instead of saying you, they would say...
thou, if they are using you as a subject.
And if they wanted to use it as an object, instead of saying to you, they would say, to thee.
And then the possessive pronouns, instead of saying, you're, if it's just one person.
People would say, thy or thine, depending on the word after it.
If the word after this pronoun was a word starting with a vowel or an h many times, like in this verse, thine heart, then people would say thine.
If it was any other word with a consonant other than H, then it would be thai, thai mouth.
Like it says in this verse, and then I'll read one other verse that has the word V in it.
So in John 3-3, it says, Jesus answered and said unto him, verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be ble-
language nerd.
I like languages and I like learning about languages so this type of topic is really interesting for me and I know that not all of you are language nerds like me but I'm sure that you'll still find this episode interesting and shared by author sounds.
again, we cannot see the Kingdom of God.
So here Jesus is addressing one person, he's talking to one person here, so he uses the instead of you.
And then what about if someone was talking to multiple people?
Well, instead of using these TH pronouns, they would use a
why pronouns, right?
E, U, etc.
So for example, in John 832, Jesus says, and he shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.
So you see there that he uses E as the subject, and then he uses U as an...
object later on.
So in that case, he's speaking to more than one person.
So you might wonder why were there different pronouns?
What was the purpose of differentiating like that?
So in many other languages, probably most other languages, there is a difference when...
you address one person and when you address more than one person.
If you speak Spanish or if you speak French or many other languages, you know what I'm talking about.
You use a different pronoun and probably a different verb conjugation if you're talking to one person or more.
than one person.
And this is actually a very helpful thing because it allows your audience to know if you're talking to just one person or if you're talking to all of them.
Because nowadays we don't know that.
We only say you, whether or not we're addressing.
a single person or multiple people.
So for example, if I call you and you're with a friend and I say what are you doing?
You say I'm at John's house.
If I say you should come over to my house, you don't know if I'm only referring to you or if I'm referring to you.
and John, I could be saying either thing, right?
You should come over.
That could be used for one person or multiple people.
So I actually think that the way that people used to speak in the past was more helpful because it eliminated this mystery.
It made it clearer.
you were speaking to.
Right?
So that's a big change that we can see.
Obviously we still understand when we read this in Bible or in other texts.
However, it is a notable difference.
Right?
And another notable change is with TH endings.
So
Nowadays, when we talk in third-person singular, the verb usually ends with an S. Like, he walks.
I walk, he walks.
Right?
However, in the past, this third-person singular verb ending had a T-H. instead of...
So for example we can see this in the most famous verse of the Bible, John 316, which says, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believe it in him should not perish but have everlasting life.
So you see that instead of saying believes, it says, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believe it in him should not perish but have everlasting life.
learning a little bit about some of the different ways that English has changed over the years.
And I want to read another review that I received on Apple Podcasts because I did that a couple episodes ago and I want to do that from time to time just to thank my
believe it, right?
That TH represented the third person singular in the past.
So, walk it instead of walks.
Pretty interesting.
I actually really like how that sounds.
I like that extra syllable, that it at the end of verbs.
I think it sounds really...
cool, but maybe that's just because older styles tend to sound interesting and cool to modern years like mine.
Maybe that's why, but I really like the way that sounds.
He do it instead of he does.
To me, that sounds pretty cool.
You might not agree, but I actually really like that.
But I doubt that will ever go back to the speaking like that again.
And then one other kind of category of changes I wanted to highlight is just certain words that had different forms in the past that are kind of archaic now.
But we can still understand.
them.
So for example, the past tense of the word speak is spoke, right?
However, in the past, people would say, spake.
So for example, John A30, it says, as he spake these words, many believed on him.
So really it's saying when Jesus spoke these words.
words.
That's how we would say it in modern terms.
However, at that time it was spake as he spake these words many believed on him.
So that's one example.
Another word I can think of is art, for example.
Instead of saying, R, like, you are in the
past, they might have said, thou art.
Right?
So for example, in John 669, it says, and we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the son of the living God.
He doesn't say, you are, he says, thou art.
I also really like that form.
I love you.
like that art instead of art.
But again, that might just be me thinking that the archaic version sounds cool.
And then another one that you'll notice if you read the King James Bible or some other text that is from that time, you'll hear the word shout, which is like, shout, which nowadays in the US, we don't even.
really use this word anymore.
So that's already kind of old sounding to us.
And then shout with a T on the end is even older.
So thou shout not kill, for example.
You might remember that from the Ten Commandments, right?
So that's another one that you'll see that we don't use nowadays.
So, there are a lot of other examples that I could have pointed out, but I just wanted to highlight a few.
And you might ask, can native speakers read English like this and understand it easily?
I would say, yes, we just have to get used to it.
The first time you encounter these words...
You might be a little bit confused if you've never heard this used before.
However, once you realize what that word means, then it's pretty obvious after that.
So you just have to get used to it, but it's very understandable.
And for example, in high school, in the US, many of us had to read...
My listeners who are also leaving reviews for me.
This one is from Darwish B and this person says, your episode helps me a lot to gain more vocabulary and ideas, nice words, slow speech, anyone can understand.
Many thanks.
Darwish thank you for listening and for writing a review.
I really appreciate that and...
Shakespeare, William Shakespeare, and his style of English was very similar to the style that we saw today, and we read that in high school.
We were teenagers when we read that.
So it's definitely understandable, but you just have to get used to it.
Get used to those different words, the different pronouns.
the the word endings things like that but it's understandable and it's not a problem to read these things and how much will English change in the future?
400 years from now will English be really different?
I don't know to be honest I'm sure the slang will be very different idioms and expression
will probably be pretty different.
The grammar will probably be slightly different because we can see grammar changes that happen over the years slowly but surely.
So I'm sure the grammar might be a little different.
So I don't know.
Hypothetically if 300 years 40
400 years from now people are speaking English It will probably be similar to today's English but with some pretty noticeable differences Like what we just saw But I would guess that it would still resemble the English that I'm speaking now so I don't know but that's what I would guess
Alright, I hope that you found this episode interesting.
I know this one was a little bit different, but I really wanted to talk about this in the episode.
And if you feel ready to practice with my advanced episodes, make sure to become a listening time.
Family member, the link is in the episode description down below.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you want my other podcast.
in which I talk to different English teachers about different topics.
You can go down and click on that link.
It's also down below.
That's patreon.com slash US conversations.
And remember to give this podcast a five-star rating and right review and I might read it in the future.
All right thank you for listening to this episode and I'll talk to you all next.
If any of you listeners leave me a review on any of the podcast apps, then I might read it here in an episode.
And of course, remember that if you want my advanced podcast episodes, you can sign up to become a listening time family member.
The link is in the description below this episode.
And you also have the link down there to sign up for my US.
conversations podcast in which I talk to different English teachers from around the country about many things.
It's a lot of fun and great practice for your listening.
So both of those links are down below.
All right, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is?
It's listening talk.
Okay, let's talk about...
some of the ways that English has changed over the years.
But first, before we talk about modern English, I want to mention Old English and Middle English.
Most of you probably aren't too familiar with the different types of English that have been spoken throughout.
the centuries.
So Old English is the earliest form of English.
It was the earliest form of English, and it was spoken between the fifth and 11 centuries.
Okay, so a long time ago.
And what's really interesting about Old English is that...
In today's video we are going to see how to pronounce ed endings correctly.
These words can be adjectives like tired, depressed, closed or interested or verbs like changed, walked, invented and washed.
English learners often...
pronounced ED endings as ED but they are never pronounced this way so if you are reading or talking in English you should never pronounce ED endings as ED depending on the last letters of the words there are three ways to pronounce these endings
dropped, baked, liked and developed.
And finally, another way to pronounce the E.D.
ending is D. For example, played, planned, agreed, carried, loved, listened, filled, lived, frightened, or appeared.
The E.
infinitive of all of these verbs and in voiced sounds.
A voiced sound is a sound that vibrates in your throat when you say it.
It is not possible to say these sounds without vibration in your throat.
Vibration is necessary to say them.
For example, for example, M-na-le-ye-ra-ja.
were Z and vowel sounds.
Because they are voiced sounds, the ED ending is pronounced as D. For example, copied, arrived, happened, married, preferred, followed, signed, wondered,
They'd rescued, lied, loved, changed, explained, robbed, hired, learned or continued.
Remember to be careful because we are looking for the last sound, not the last better.
For example, love, the last sound is because the...
G-H is pronounced as laugh.
Because the last sound, which is voiceless, the pronunciation of E-D is T. So the past of laugh is laughed.
Or notice, the last sound is T. Because the C-E is...
pronounced as t. Because the last sound is voiceless, the pronunciation is t. And finally, realize the last sound is t. Because the s or the z are pronounced as t. Because the last sound is voiced, the pronunciation is t.
is D. Now let's practice.
The main thing that I want you to remember from this video is that you never pronounce them as E. Okay.
Remember R is voiced, so remembered.
Fresh is voiceless, so fresh.
Open and is voiced so it's opened.
Invited finishes in tea.
Invited.
Retire.
R is voiced so retired.
Trust finishes in tea.
Trusted.
Invent finishes in tea.
Invent finishes in tea.
invented.
Miao finish is in w, so miao closed.
The sound is z, so it's voiced closed.
Promised is unvoiced, so promised.
Rip is unvoiced, so ripped.
clean, n is voiced, cleaned, sh is unvoiced, crashed, and finally represent is with a t, so represented.
If you have found this video useful, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.
Thank you very much and I'll see you.
The first ending we are going to see is id.
The id endings of these words is pronounced as id.
Accepted, invented, avoided, planted, permitted, separated, protected, pretended, extended, and decorated.
The infinitives of all of these verbs end in the sounds, t-t-r-d-u.
So, when the infinitive of a regular verb finishes in t-t-r-d-u, the ed ending is pronounced as id.
Now, we will read some more examples out loud.
to practice.
Decided, invested, hunted, arrested, printed, repeated, respected, created, created, presented, represented, reported, resulted, invited, existed, shouted, subject.
But be careful because when we are looking for the last sound of the infinitive, we are looking for the last sound, not the last letter.
For example, in hunt it's easy because the last letter is T. But for example, in the side, we don't pronounce the last E. So
The last sound is the decide.
So, in this case, it is pronounced as id.
Hunted and decided.
Another way to pronounce the id ending is tt, like the t-sat.
For example, announced, attacked, washed, watched, stopped.
crossed, crashed, liked, looked, walked or fixed.
The infinities of all of these verbs end in unvoiced sound.
An unvoiced sound is a sound that doesn't vibrate in your throat when you say it.
This is possible to say these sounds without...
vibration in your throat.
I know it sounds strange but it's important to know which ones are unvoiced sounds.
That means that and are unvoiced sounds because they are
on voice sounds the ED ending as pronounced as t. Now let's read some more examples out loud to practice.
Asked, kissed, kicked, looked, left, brushed, matched, switched, missed, hoped, talked, practiced.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 174 of Listening Time Podcast.
Thank you all for listening.
I hope that you're doing great.
Today I hope that your English learning is going well and I hope that some of you are actually starting to speak English and not...
just listen.
And that's the topic of today's episode.
I want to talk about how to start speaking English.
I've talked about this number of times in different episodes, but today I want to dedicate this whole episode to this topic.
Okay?
So I just recently started speaking French.
That situation because it's really stressful if you start to have a conversation with someone and you can't understand them well That is not a good situation to be in especially if that teacher doesn't speak your language and they don't speak really slowly That's not a good situation.
So My advice would be to start speaking
When you feel like you can understand enough English, that you can manage a conversation with someone speaking to you in English even if your speaking level is low.
So if you can understand a good amount of English and you feel like you're ready to try to have a conversation, then you should.
Okay, at that point you should push yourself to start speaking, but don't force it and try to do it too early before you're ready.
I think that that can have some negative effects.
So push yourself, but don't be too eager that you're just starting to speak even though you can't understand English.
So that would be my advice, but other people disagree with me and that's okay.
This is just my personal opinion.
Okay.
When you do feel like you want to start speaking, how do you do this?
I assume most of you aren't just surrounded by people that you can practice English with.
So how do you do this?
Well, I always recommend using...
a website like iTalkie, for example, there are other similar websites as well, but the one that I'm familiar with is iTalkie, and I always recommend using this website to find native speakers who are teachers or tutors, and you can have conversations with them.
So for example, right now I am a student on I talkie learning French and I take conversation classes with three different teachers at this time.
So I've found three different I talkie French tutors who I have conversations with.
Versoe
I would recommend to you.
I think it's great to find two or three different teachers so that you can hear different styles of speaking.
You can talk about different topics depending on what those teachers are interested in and what you're interested in.
We usually have different conversations with different
people.
So I like to have that variety.
And for me, for French, for example, we have different genders in French.
We have Vasculine feminine.
So for me, it's important to practice talking to men and women in French.
So I have one female French tutor and two male French tutors.
because this forces me to use the feminine version of adjectives, things like that.
So that's good practice for me.
For English, that's not the case because we don't have those different genders when it comes to the language.
But I think it could still be good to have male and female tutors if you want, but it's not.
That big of a deal not like when you're learning French for example and If you've listened to any of my US conversations episodes You've seen that I have conversations with different English teachers On high-talkie some of them man some of them women So if you're looking for teachers, you don't know where to start Maybe you can contact some of them
consistently.
Before that, I just listened and read in French, but recently about a month and a half ago, I think, I started having regular French conversations, consistent French conversations.
And I'll use that as a reference.
those teachers that I talked to on my US Conversations podcast.
Maybe you liked a certain conversation that I had with a certain teacher on that podcast.
And you go and start taking classes with that person because they sound like a good teacher someone that you'd be interested in talking to.
So that could be a great starting point.
you can start with some of those teachers that I talk to on that podcast.
So that's just an idea.
But I would recommend testing these teachers out and this might take a little while.
You might need to take a few classes with them.
That's okay.
You're getting a lot of practice while you're doing that.
And maybe after a few classes you decide whether or not you like...
having conversations with them and decide whether or not they're a good teacher and then if you like them you can continue on with them.
So it takes a little while to find your two or three teachers.
It took me a while for French.
It took me almost a month I think, probably like three weeks taking classes with different teachers.
But now I have my teachers.
So that's great.
So what are the criteria?
What criteria should we use when choosing a teacher?
I talked about this in my episode about English teachers, but I'll just quickly mention these different criteria that I used.
Number one, the teacher should be able to manage the conversation well.
If the teacher is not doing that well, and you feel...
like you have to manage the class, that's usually not a good sign.
That's a lot of work for you, right?
The teacher should be the one really managing the conversation, making you feel like the conversation is blowing very naturally.
And the class should just feel easy in that sense.
Maybe not the English part.
of it, but the conversation itself should feel easy and natural.
You shouldn't feel like you have to make a ton of effort to manage the conversation and ask them a ton of questions because they're not asking you questions.
You don't want that.
You want the class to feel easy and want the conversation to flow naturally.
So that's really important.
That's probably the most important thing for me.
I want the class to feel easy, fun.
I want the conversation to feel natural.
So I can just focus on speaking and listening and not having to manage the class.
Okay.
That's important.
I think the teacher should give an acceptable amount of correction.
You should tell them.
how much correction you want and whether you want them to just write it down or whatever you want, right, and you can experiment with them.
I kind of like when the teacher writes down my mistakes, not all of them of course because I make tons of mistakes, but maybe the most important ones that the teacher wants me to...
know about.
I like when they write them down not necessarily when they interrupt me, but maybe they just write them down on a chat.
So I like that, but you might be different.
I would say that you can experiment with this, see what you like, and just make sure you like the teacher.
Make sure that they have a personality that you like.
You probably shouldn't talk to someone that has...
really the complete opposite of you and doesn't like anything that you like.
That's probably not the best.
So make sure you have some common interests, like them, etc.
And I think if you're just starting out, it's really helpful when you use a teacher who can speak your language to a certain degree, your native language.
They don't need to be fluent.
to talk about how you can start speaking English.
So this will be an important episode, an important topic for all of you, even if you already started speaking English.
I think this episode will give you some tips, maybe, some advice to make sure that you're really utilizing your time.
in your language, but maybe they can speak enough to just help you in those moments where you guys are really having trouble understanding each other, whatever.
If the teacher speaks your language, it's great if you can just say a word in your native language to kind of make things easier and then the teacher can say, oh, okay, that's this word.
That really helps.
You don't need that.
But when you're first starting out, I found that that's very okay.
All right, how about in terms of how many classes you should be taking, how often, for me what I'm currently doing, and this is something that I like, I like taking about three classes sometimes two, so two to three maybe three is even better.
Of course, and each class that I take is just 30 minutes.
I honestly think that the best perfect amount of time that I've experienced, I think is 45 minutes.
However, not everyone offers a 45 minute class, and sometimes it's just better to do 30 minutes.
It's easier to fit in your schedule and it's cheaper.
been doing 30 minutes, but if you can take 45 minute classes, I think that's a really good length.
One hour can sometimes seem a little long, harder to fit into your schedule.
So either 30 minutes or 45 minutes is good for me.
You might be different, but I think you can try this out and see what you think.
And take 2-3 classes away.
Right now.
I'm trying to take three 30 minute classes a week and that's one class per week with each teacher because I have three French tutors and I take one class per week with each one.
And something really important is that I use these teachers for conversation.
I don't use them to give me a grammar lesson.
30 minutes.
Okay?
I'm specifically using these teachers so that I can practice speaking so that we can have a conversation.
This is something I really believe in and I think is really important that you should use teachers for the things that you can't do by yourself.
You can learn grammar by yourself.
There are some really...
good English grammar teachers on YouTube that are completely free.
Okay?
You can do this on your own no problem.
However, you can't really have conversations by yourself or at least it's not easy to do that.
Okay?
And so use teachers for conversations.
That's what they're perfect for.
Okay?
So this is what I do.
and I always recommend that you should talk about things that are interesting for you.
Have conversations that you would normally have with people in your language.
Talk about topics that are interesting for you and that you want to talk about.
This will also help you just feel motivated to take classes because...
It will be like talking to a friend sometimes and I've made friends with Some of my teachers and some of my students There are students I've had for example Who have invited me to come stay with them in their house and their country?
I've never done this but maybe in the future I'll have
a chance to meet up with a student of mine, another country who knows, right?
But you can really just feel like you're talking to a friend sometimes when you're having conversations with teachers on eye-talking.
And that's great.
We'll help you with your speaking practice and we'll help you feel more motivated.
in the best way possible when you speak English.
Okay, so I think that you'll really enjoy this episode, and I hope that it's helpful for you.
And remember that you can use my advanced podcast episodes to start listening to real English spoken fast.
In those episodes, I speak at normal speed.
So if you want those, the link to sign up is down below in episode two.
to actually take consistent conversation classes.
So talk about things that are interesting for you.
And one thing that I just recently started doing, and you can do this for some of your classes too, if you want, that is prepare your topic in advance.
I don't think you always need to do this.
I think maybe it's good to do this.
for some of your classes and then maybe other classes, you just allow the conversation to start naturally without some topic.
But I think it's also really helpful to have some conversations that you've kind of prepared in advance, maybe you watched a video in English about a certain topic.
And you...
want to talk about that topic from that video in your conversation.
And I just recently did this with one of my French tutors.
I watched a video, I sent it to him, and then I talked to him about that video in our class.
And what I found was that I was using the vocabulary that I heard.
that video.
Like because I knew that I was going to talk about this video in my next class, I think I was able to pay more attention to the video and do the new vocabulary in that video.
And I kind of prepared some of the vocabulary phrases in my mind for the conversation.
I was able to
Use phrases that I probably wouldn't normally be able to use just because I I heard them in that video and now I'm talking about that video So I use those phrases that I heard the person say in video so That has kind of helped me learn vocabulary and learn phrases more effectively I'm paying more attention to them and I'm
pairing those phrases in my mind before the class and then I'm using them and that kind of reinforces those phrases, those words.
So that's something you can try as well.
A couple other tips I think it's good to have a translator open on your computer when you're having these classes so you can look up words and you you
take a really long time to open up a translator or search for it like you can just have your translator open on your screen as you're talking and just quickly type in words if you need to translate words and if the teacher speaks your native language I think you can say things in your own language if you need to I'm not against that I do that all the time I don't think
it's bad to do this and it just kind of speeds things up in other words it makes things go faster when you can just say the word in your language and then the teacher translates that immediately you probably save time so you don't have to always go and look up the word and see if it's the right translation say it to your teacher right it's sometimes easier to just say the word in your language
help you say it in English.
And one of the things is with corrections.
Like I mentioned before, I like when teachers write corrections down written form.
And what I've been doing is I review the corrections at the end of the class.
When class is over, I go back and look at the corrections written.
down.
I don't just end the class and go do something else.
I actually view the corrections.
And I remember what I was saying when I made each of these mistakes and then before the next class with that same teacher, I review those corrections again like five minutes before the class.
This has really helped me actually because some of the
description below this episode.
And you can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast.
In that podcast, I talked to people from all around the United States and we talked about different topics such as their city or their state where they live and compare different parts of the country and it's a lot of fun and of course I provide the transcript.
these corrections are things that I will probably say in multiple classes.
So I review these corrections, I see what I need to say differently, and then in the next class I can actually say it the right way.
In the past, when I took classes, I didn't do this, I didn't even look at my corrections after the class.
And now...
that I'm doing this, I can see that it makes a big difference.
So I highly recommend that you do that.
You should review your corrections after the class is over and or your next class with that teacher.
So those are some things that can help you out.
Not everyone would agree with me on all of these things but these are things that I like to do when I take classes and
Don't worry about mistakes.
Don't worry about needing to say things in your language.
Don't worry about the things that make the conversation less natural or you have to switch to your language.
Don't worry about those things, especially with just starting.
The key is to just start and understand the other person to start to build.
the connection with them and have fun while speaking and just start to correct some of your mistakes and you're going to develop muscle memory as you continue to speak.
This means that as you continue to speak you're going to develop that memory over time of how to say certain phrases, how to say...
different things that will develop over time.
You just have to start and speak consistently, speak frequently, right?
And it's going to feel really good in the future when you start to have better conversations or fluent conversations.
But you have to start somewhere.
So if you're ready, start today, use these tips.
that I just gave you and maybe use some of the teachers that I talked to in my US Conversations podcast.
So if you haven't signed up for that podcast, I highly recommend that you do that so that you can practice with understanding a conversation between native speakers and you have the added benefit of hearing these teachers.
talk and maybe you want to take a class with one of that.
So the link to sign up for that is down below and then you can also just use my advanced episodes if you feel like that's your next step.
So the link to sign up for those advanced episodes is down below as well.
So I hope that all of these tips were helpful for you.
I hope that you feel motivated to start speaking English if you're ready.
If you're not ready, then just keep these things in mind and in the future when you are ready, you can come back and listen to this episode again and maybe check out those US conversations episode, check out some of those teachers' profiles when you're ready and then you can start that.
So no rush, but I'm sure a lot of you are ready to start and you're...
each of those episodes and those transcripts also have the definitions, the words and phrases that we use.
So that's a really helpful tool that will allow you to practice listening to two people talking, practice listening to a conversation and not just one person talking to you.
So the link to sign up is also down below.
And of course you have the transcript for this episode down below as well.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about starting to speak in English.
How do you start speaking?
First of all, I want to mention that I think it's important to start when you feel...
ready to start.
Okay, I don't think that people should start speaking when they really don't want to, they really don't feel like it.
Sometimes people don't want to but it's because they're nervous or they haven't done it before.
That's different.
I think you should kind of push yourself to start even if you don't want to because you feel nervous.
But in reality, you already understand English really well, should start.
I'm talking about when you just don't have a good enough comprehension to feel like you can even have a conversation with someone.
So if that's your case, then my advice is to not start before you feel like you can manage.
This week I have been ill with a cold, so I thought that it would be a good opportunity to talk about illnesses in English.
I have had a cold, which usually involves a runny or stuffy nose, a sore throat and a cough.
I have felt tired and I've had to spend a lot of time resting.
I have been to the doctors and she gave me a...
prescription.
I took the prescription to the chemist and they gave me the medicine that I had been prescribed.
I was given some pills or tablets to take every eight ounce.
I was told to keep hydrated by drinking plenty of fluids like water and to eat hot foods like a chicken broth or some soup.
proper treatment to heal correctly.
If it is swollen you must apply ice to the area to reduce the swelling.
If it is a bad spray you might be advised to wear a cast to stop you from moving it.
This healing process can take up to six weeks.
In the UK supermarkets and
other shops are allowed to sell basic medicine like ibuprofen, pericetamol, cough mixtures, aliti tablets etc.
I know that in other countries this is not so common.
In many other places in the world you can only buy medicine at the chemist.
You're not allowed to buy more than two packets at a time.
in England for safety reasons, but it is much more practical than going to the chemist every time you need some medicine.
An over-the-counter drug is one that you can buy without the prescription from the doctor.
However, if you require a special treatment or a specific drug, you have to show your
order it so that it can be sent to that pharmacy.
Interestingly, there is a prescription charge of £9.65 per item.
So if your prescription has three drugs on it, you have to pay the prescription charge three times.
No matter what you're prescribed, you will always pay that amount per item.
It can be...
very positive if the medicine is expensive in other countries but negative is a cheap medicine which you have to pay a higher price for.
People who are over 60 don't have to pay for prescriptions in this country.
This is extremely beneficial for older people who have a lot of
health problems.
Imagine having to take 10 types of medicine that would be more than £90 a month.
As I said, basic medication like paracetamol or ibuprofen which are pain relievers can be bought at supermarkets and normally cost only 40 or 50p per packet.
So that means that you've...
be paying 9 pounds for a packet of paracetamol but if you have an inhaler, if you have asthma, then you would pay 9 pounds for that inhaler.
What do you think about this?
Do you think that it is a fair way of doing it?
How does it work in your country?
Let me know in the comment section because I know that it is quite controversial, especially
I have followed my doctor's advice and after five days I'm starting to feel a little bit better.
When you have a cold or the flu, which is more serious, you might have a headache.
Some people also have a fever or a high temperature.
It's important to have the thermometer at home to check your temperature and see...
whether you have fever or not.
You normally feel really cold and get the shivers when you have a high temperature.
Other very common illnesses that people can suffer from are stomach ache and vomiting.
In the US they also call vomiting puking and in the UK you can say being sick.
You might wonder how we
can tell the difference between being sick as in vomiting and being sick as in ill. For example, if I say that the child was sick on the floor, then it's obvious that the child vomited on the floor.
But if you say I'm sick today, then it means that you are ill. You can tell the difference by the context.
Sometimes when you have a cold you might have an earache which is basically pain in your ears.
When you have a lot of mucus you can feel the pressure on your ears and on your nose until you blow your nose with a tissue.
If your teeth are growing or you have an infection you might suffer from toothache.
If you feel like you might need a tooth extracted or you need a filling, you must go to the dentist to have it checked out.
Some people have issues with their guns, which is the pink tissue surrounding your teeth.
If you spend too much time in the sun, you could suffer from some burn.
A rash which is usually red might appear on your skin.
This is why you always apply sunscreen when you spend time in the sun.
People usually underestimate the skin damage that the sun rays can cause.
When you are sun burnt, your skin will become itchy and the skin will start to peel and fall off.
after a few days.
If you have an accident while walking or running around and you bump your leg or head for example on a hard object you might get a bruise.
Bruises can be red, purple, blue or black.
Children normally get a lot of bruises because when they are running around in the playground at school and they fall.
over or they bump their head on something then they get bruises.
If your accident is worse than just a small bump you might break a bone or sprain one of your ligaments.
People often twist their ankles, knees or wrists in accidents and they can sprain them.
This is an injury that often requires...
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
Today we're going to be talking about adopting pets.
The first question is, how many pets do you think we have adopted over the years?
Wow, that's very difficult to say.
Officially, I think we've adopted about six pets.
What do you mean by officially?
I mean, now officially we went to...
a registered adoption agency or like the dog pound to adopt a pet but unofficially we have adopted many more pets yeah like when people have moved away and they didn't know what to do with their pets they decided to give the pets to us yes that happened on many occasions with rabbits and
would get lonely.
Yeah that's true and I don't think that a rabbit has those emotions or attachment to you.
Okay the next question is which do you think is the worst pet to have?
Anything that you wouldn't normally call a pet like a lizard or a snake or a spider, anything that isn't furry.
Do you think that's because you've never had those pets?
Possibly, but I think that how they look just puts me off.
What about, for example, Ernie Blanc?
No, I wouldn't like handling them.
I would have to have a fluffy pet.
But we've had a lot of turtles and terrapins.
Yeah, but I didn't pick them up and cuddle them.
Yeah, so they were just like there in the garden.
We've been looking at them.
Yeah, they're not emotional support.
All right.
I'm not like a dot.
Okay, the next question is, what do you think are the advantages of adopting a pet rather than buying one?
I think that people like to adopt a pet because they are rescuing them from an otherwise boring life in a shelter.
So by adopting a pet, you are giving them a good home that they would enjoy.
I think one thing that a lot of people don't think.
think about is that when you adopt a pet, you're also giving another space for another dog to be adopted.
So for example, without dog, if we hadn't adopted that dog, there wouldn't have been space to save another dog in the dog shelter because they only have a limited amount of dogs that they can keep.
So basically, you're saving the life of two dogs.
That's true.
That's true.
Bye.
but when you buy a dog from a pet shop it can be very expensive.
Yeah, and you don't know where it has come from.
But it is true that there are some difficulties when you try to adopt a dog because I have a lot of friends that live in a flat, for example, and the animal shelters have come to look at their house to see if it is suitable for a dog and their applications have been...
rejected.
The reality is that when you go an adoptive dog it's very hard to find one.
If you live in a flat or like in your case.
Yes, a friend of mine tried very hard to adopt a dog but when you fill in the form it says have you got a garden and they had to put no, they haven't got a garden because they live on a boat but in fact they have access to miles and miles of country.
side and more access to public footpaths and parks and most other people do.
But because they had to tick the box of, no, I haven't got a garden, then they weren't allowed to adopt a dog.
So in the end, they've had to buy a dog a puppy, which wasn't what they wanted to do.
Yeah, so I think that's what you're worried about in the future when you want to have a dog when you live on a bug.
and the guinea pigs and birds and terrapins and terrapins and fish.
I think one of the reasons as well was that before they used to give the pets away at theirs.
So if you went to this there and you played a game, your prize was a fish or a terrapin and then when those people got home they realised that it was a big problem because they had
that's forever.
Yeah, or they've got home and their parents would have let them keep the pets.
I remember we used to have a terrapin and somebody won him out of there and we kept him for about was it 12 years?
Yes, yeah, about 12 years and if somebody had won the terrapin out of there, they would have had to keep him for all of those years.
So I think it's quite irresponsible of the
that had them at the fair.
Yeah that's true because sometimes the children were too young to own the pet or to take care of the pet and we've heard a lot of stories of people winning the terrapins and then they got lost in the house and they never found them.
I think luckily now it's been banned so nowadays you can't win the terrapin or fish of that so I think that's that's a good
thing isn't it?
Yeah, that's very good.
The next question is which pets did we officially adopt?
We have officially adopted one cat and one dog, yeah.
Yeah, and the rest just appeared.
I remember, we've got the cat that I have now appeared in our house, didn't you?
Yes, one morning she appeared in the garden.
We weren't going to keep her but...
then she decided she would live with us.
I remember when I came home from school one afternoon, on the journey home, you said, oh, we have a new pet and it was a cat.
And then when we got home, the cat was laying on the bed and I think she had decided to stay with us forever.
Yes, she decided to stay.
We didn't decide to keep her.
She decided that she was staying with us.
Cat's a very independent and suspended the distance and stayed.
take their own decisions.
Right, the next question is, which do you think is the best cat, cat or dog?
I think that both are good in their own way because with a cat they're very independent and you don't have to take them for walks but with a dog gives you more companionship and a dog loves you more and you get good exercise taking the dog for the
Don't you think that my cat loves me then?
No.
No.
Sometimes I really think she does love me.
No.
Cats only think that you will feed them.
They don't love you from their heart, but dog loves you because you can see how they look at you.
They love you.
But it is a lot easier to have a cat because, for example, we can go out for a day and we know that we don't have to come back home to take them.
walk so I think it just depends on your lifestyle which is the best path.
Yep that's true some people have a house rabbit and they think that's the best pet because you can keep it in its cage in the garden or in your house.
Yeah and maybe if you haven't got so much time it doesn't need as much love and attention as a dog.
I think if you left a dog on its own the dog misses you a lot and if...
The other day I went to a cafe and I was taking a look at the menu and I thought it would be a good idea to do a video about this topic because there are so many things that you can choose from on a menu at a cafe.
I was out for the day in a city near me and I didn't know where to go for lunch so I looked on Google and searched for cafes.
nearly.
I didn't know where to choose because they all seem so similar so I took a look at the reviews.
There was one cafe that stood out because it was 4.7 stars and I had 113 reviews.
So I checked the opening times and it said that it opened from 8.30 till 2.30 p.m.
were quite a lot of people inside and the queue was quite long so there were a lot of people just waiting in the cafe so I think that if I went again I would definitely eat it outside in a park or on a bench because there were a lot of people inside such a small area.
One of the comments was that it was quite a mess.
Hit a mess.
means that it's not really reliable, so you might go to the cafe one day and it's excellent and you go back another day and it isn't very good.
You can use this about your mobile phone, for example.
My mobile phone is quite hit and miss, sometimes it works and other times it doesn't.
Now that I'm back home, I'm taking a look at the negative comments because they're usually quite funny.
Someone has said that the cafe is what it is, so it means that it's basic, like we said before it's too painful, but when the sun shines and you find a spot outside, you can imagine that you're in Italy.
So this person obviously wants to be on holiday.
Another person has said that the sign says that it opens at 9 o'clock, but every time they've been there at 9 o'clock.
it hasn't been opened.
And the last negative comment said that they had ordered a bacon and a sausage sandwich but when they got home they realized that they didn't have any sausages in it.
Usually when I read negative comments or reviews I take it with a pinch of salt.
Taking something with a pinch of salt means to believe only part of something
or to think that it's exaggerated.
Because people are more likely to leave a negative review than a positive review.
If you think about it, you might have posted more negative reviews because you are so dissatisfied with your experience at a restaurant that you go on there and write a negative review.
But when you've had a press...
experience you don't usually take the time to go on their website or their Google page to write a positive review.
In the comments section I'd like you to tell me when was the time that you've written a negative review?
It can be at the cafe, a museum, any type of place.
It doesn't just have to be a negative review of a cafe.
If you have enjoyed this video
The review said that it was a cheap and cheap or cafe.
Cheap and cheerful is a British expression and it means that it's simple and inexpensive.
So it's not of bad quality but it is cheap.
So it doesn't cost much but it serves its purpose.
It does what it has.
People even said that it's their go-to pay.
for a delicious breakfast.
A go-to place means a place that you always go to when you're looking for a breakfast in this case.
They also said that they could clearly see that it was a popular place because the queue was very long.
People were even queueing outside.
The food is freshly cooked and it's quite tasty.
and people were actually impressed with the quality in food, considering that the prices are quite low.
Apparently the service was fast and friendly, and it was clean inside and out, so I thought that I couldn't go wrong and I decided to go to this cafe.
When I went in the cafe, it seemed like the majority of people were having a...
of full English breakfast.
So I looked at the menu and it said that two pieces of bacon, two sausages, one egg, some beans, tomatoes, mushrooms and two slices of toast was £7.
It also included tea or coffee so I thought this was a great deal.
hot sandwiches on offer and the most popular ones were bacon and egg, bacon and tomato, sausage and cheese and bacon mushrooms.
It seemed like everything included bacon or sausage so I don't know if you would like this cafe if you don't like these two options or if you have vegetarian.
These hot sandwiches cost three if they, which is quite a good price.
And if you wanted a hot beverage with one of your hot sandwiches, you could choose from tea, coffee, hot chocolate or minestrone soup.
I thought that it was quite strange to include soup in the hot beverage section.
And if you wanted a hot beverage with one of your hot sandwiches, you could choose from
tea was one, if they, their coffee was 190 and the hot chocolate was £2.
You could also buy some cans of soft drinks and they were £1 each which I think is quite a good price.
I decided to order a bacon and cheese hot sandwich with a cup of tea because I was quite tight.
from walking around or city.
The sandwich was decent and the cup of tea was like a normal cup of tea.
It wasn't the best food that I've ever tried but it did the job.
So I agree with the column which said it's cheap and cheerful.
I think that if you're paying £4 for a cup of tea and hot sandwich you can't expect much more.
Many people love going shopping and they enjoy going on a shopping spree for different reasons.
Most of the time it's not just about buying things, it's more about how it makes people feel.
Going shopping can feel like going on a treasure hunt.
You are searching for something special or for a bargain.
And when you find that item it can make you feel very happy.
shopping is also fun for some people.
In fact, the shopping centres and stores themselves are designed to be interesting with nice music playing in the background and displays with models wearing the perfect outfits.
For a lot of people it's a way to relax and to enjoy themselves especially when they go with friends or family.
It can also help.
These products are normally expensive, so if you keep an eye on the price and wait for a good offer, then you could save hundreds of pounds.
Lastly, beauty and personal care products are sold during sales.
For example, fragrances, skincare products or cosmetics.
People usually make the most...
of the sales to stock up on their favourite products.
Stock up on means to buy a large quantity of items to use them later on in the future.
For example, when I go to the supermarket, I usually stock up on milk.
So that means that I buy six cartons instead of just one.
Now we're going to see some praise of the
about shopping.
To sell out means to sell all of this ply that a shop has of something.
For example, I went to the shop to buy that t-shirt but they had sold out.
It means that there weren't any left.
To try on means to put on a piece of clothing to see whether it fits.
For example, I...
tried on the shoes, but they weren't my size.
To queue up or to line up means to wait in a queue or a line behind other people.
You normally queue up at the checkout to pay for your items.
To shop around means to go to different shops and compare prices before buying something.
For example, I was looking to buy a phone and I shopped around, but I decided to buy it online in the end.
To take something back means to return an item to the shop where you bought it.
For example, I bought a present for a friend, but she already had that item.
So I had to take it back.
To pick out means to choose an item from many other items to buy it.
For example, there were many shampoo bottles but I picked out the cheapest.
And lastly, to splash out on something means to spend a lot of money on something.
For example, she doesn't like spending money but she splashed out.
you express yourself because the things that you buy like clothes that you purchase can show your style and personality.
Not everybody has the same fashion sense.
There are many different fashion styles like casual, classic, elegant, preppy, punk, gothic, chic, and...
And people usually chew to these styles because they feel that it represents the best.
Shopping can be a social event as well.
It's an excuse to hang out with friends or family, spend time together while you're looking around the shops, or asking for advice.
Maybe you're not sure about what type of clothes suit you.
So you might ask a friend or a family.
member to come along with you to ask for their opinion.
Shopping centres are normally full when the sales are on.
A lot of people like sales because they can get the things that they want by for a lower price.
When the sales are on people feel like they have a good opportunity to save money and they like
feeling of finding a bargain.
It also makes shopping more exciting because it feels even more like a treasure hunt because you know that there is a chance that you might find something that you like for a cheaper price.
However, it's important to be careful with sales because sometimes things on sale aren't what you really need.
It's easy to go...
and buy things when you see them just because they're cheap, when we don't really need them and hadn't planned on buying them.
This can lead us to spend money on things that we don't really need or we don't really want, when we had actually gone to the sales to see if we could save money.
So sales sometimes have the opposite effect.
It can also trick us into...
buying items which are a lower quality.
When we see that something is on sale, we normally assume that it is a good deal, but sometimes shops put these things on sale to get rid of them because those products aren't selling well or because they are lower quality.
The top selling items during sales are clothing and
accessories because people like to update their wardrobes with new styles and trends and sales allows them to do so at a discounted price.
However I have found that when you go to the sales, it is very difficult to find the item that you would like to purchase in your size.
It's normally the sizes that
people don't usually buy and be uglier coloured or patterned items like for example bright of orange and bright pink.
Electronics are another popular category during sales.
A lot of people like to buy smartphones, televisions, laptops and other small gadgets when they are on offer.
In today's video we're going to talk about flying.
Do you enjoy flying?
Yes, I do enjoy flying.
I don't mind going on a plane and I'm not scared of it.
But what I don't like about flying is the fact that you have to get to the airport about two hours before and go to security and take all of your luggage.
trying to a liquid out of your bag.
I think that that is the worst part about flying.
I say that the part of actually being on the plane, flying, is the most comfortable part.
I don't like the weighting and going through it.
But apparently in the European Union and UK they are going to take away these measures.
not actually listening to music but because they are noise-canceling headphones, it reduces the noise of the airplane and it makes my head hurt less.
Sometimes I take my tablets on airplane and before I leave home I download different episodes of my favorite series.
so that I can watch them on the plane.
But I don't always do this because it depends on how long the flight is.
If the flight is only one or two hours, then I wouldn't bother.
But if the flight is about four hours, then I would because it's good to have a variety of activities to do on the plane.
The next question is, do you think the flight attendance
like flying.
Well, I assume that flight attendants like flying, if not, you wouldn't apply for this job.
I think that it's a very demanding job.
You have a lot of responsibility and you have to spend a lot of your flight standing up.
Being at such a high altitude must be difficult for your body as well and of course on your mental health.
I definitely think that it is a profession that should be more appreciated.
Now we're going to see some idioms which are related to flying.
When pigs fly is an expression that we use to say that something is not going to happen.
So for example if somebody says I'm going to clean the garage tomorrow and the other person says Okay.
the garage when pick spline.
So basically they're saying that they will never do it.
A fly on the wall as in the insect fly is an expression that we use when somebody is secretly listening or looking at something when they shouldn't be.
So if you're having a private conversation with your partner and...
and your child is secretly listening is a fly on the wall.
To send something flying means to hit something and you hit it into the air by accident.
So for example, I was cleaning the bathroom and I sent the shampoo bottle flying.
It means that I knocked it over and it went up into the air.
To pass with flying colours means to do something very easily.
For example, if you do an exam and you pass with flying colours, it means that you did it very well and it wasn't difficult for you.
And time flies is the last expression that we're going to see.
When you say that time flies, it means that it goes by...
I have read that you won't have to take your electronics out of your luggage and that you won't have to separate liquids and keep them in smaller containers.
I'm really excited about this and hopefully it will be implemented soon.
What are the best things about flying?
I think that the most obvious benefit Earth.
flying is the fact that you can travel such long distances in such a short time, especially if you go over water.
It would take such a long time to travel from England to the US, for example.
It would take ages if you went on boat or ship.
The next question is, do you prefer flying or taking?
train.
I prefer taking a train because you don't have to be at the train station one or two hours before.
You can just turn up 10 minutes before.
Obviously I don't turn up 30 minutes before, but it's not the same as traveling by plane.
You don't have to go through security either so you can pack your bag however you want.
Don't...
have to keep the liquid separate, go through security and it's just a much more comfortable experience.
I often get headaches from flying as well so it's nice to feel okay and well after I get to my destination because sometimes when I come off of the flight I don't feel very well and it...
ruins that day for me.
The next question is, do you think that flying has got worse or better over the years?
Well, it's quite hard to answer this question because obviously, flying has become a lot cheaper and a lot more accessible to a lot of people.
But I normally travel with budget airlines, which...
that they are cheaper airlines.
In the past I used to travel with more expensive airlines because air traveling in general used to be a lot more expensive but about 15 or 20 years ago you received a meal during the flight and that was included.
I know that this depends on the airline.
Nowadays there
still some lines that provide food, but they are more expensive.
So like I say, it's quite difficult for me to compare because in the past I used to pay a lot more for the flights, whereas now you could travel to Spain for about 30 euros.
It's often cheaper to travel abroad to Europe from England than it is to travel within the country because
train prices are so expensive.
Do you have an airplane routine when you travel?
I don't have a routine that I follow when I travel by plane but I always take a book, a cushion just in case I want to fall asleep and my headphones.
I always use headphones even if I'm not
In today's video we're going to talk about celebrities.
I'm going to be answering some questions about this talk.
The first question is, what is the celebrity?
I'd say a celebrity is a famous person, especially in entertainment and sports.
Why do you think some people are obsessed with celebrities?
I think...
Some people are obsessed with celebrities because they see something in them that they would like to have.
Maybe they are rich, successful, attractive, confident.
All these different things that many people aspire to be.
Some people can use this session in a positive way and become inspired and motivated.
because that could damage their image or career.
Especially now on the internet, where anything can go viral, you can receive a lot of hate comments and you are constantly being watched by your fans and by your haters.
The next question is, which celebrity would you invite to your birthday party?
I think.
that I would invite Robert Pattinson to my birthday party.
I would make a twilight thing party with vampires and wars because I know that he actually hated twilight even though I love it and I think that would be really fun.
I think that he's a good actor and I grew up a friend as well.
been quite obsessed with the Twilight saga, so it would definitely be a birthday party that I would never forget.
Do you like reading about celebrities in magazines or online?
No, I don't really spend my time on reading about celebrities.
The only time I might read an article about them is if it is on me.
use.
So if there is an article about the oscures or about the Grammys I would read that but I wouldn't actually read any gossip about them because I'm not really interested in that.
For example I have my favourite singers and bands but I don't follow them on social media and I don't look up.
information about them either.
I'm interested in their music but not in their love lives or what they're up to this week.
I think you're normally into this when you're a teenager and you're really obsessed with the band or a singer or a celebrity but as you get older you're more focused on your own life so you are losing trust.
the next question is what aspects of your current life would you miss if you became a celebrity?
If I became an important celebrity, like a well-known celebrity, then I would miss just going for a walk or going to the shop without people following me or recognising me.
I think that it's all relative because...
There are a lot of celebrities in England that are famous in this country, but if they went to a New America or they went to any other country, they wouldn't be recognised by the people there.
Maybe an English person who is on holiday might recognise them, but I think that's the best type of celebrity to be, because if your famous worldwide like to your sweet
do a leeper than everybody would recognize you in any country in the world.
And I think that can be quite scary because there are a lot of people out there who are obsessed with celebrities.
Even though these rich singers have giant houses, it's not the same as going for a walk and knowing that nobody is going to be interested in you or let's go.
by these people, whereas others might be jealous and might compare themselves negatively with them.
So I think we either I said everything because they have a certain trait that we would like to have or they have achieved things that we would like to achieve as well.
It's the ideal beauty success and lifestyle.
that people are interested in.
Some of them have giant houses, amazing cars, beautiful skin, hair and people even develop strong bonds with celebrities, even though those people don't even know you exist.
We become interested in their love lives and we copy their fashion sense.
We follow them online to see what they're up to and some people really do become obsessed with them The next question is what do you think the downsides of being a celebrity are?
I say the main downside is the lack of privacy They're always being followed and photographed by paparazzi and people want to know everything about their lives
they are going out with where they live, who their friends are and in the end they lose their privacy.
Another disadvantage is that people have high expectations.
When you're famous, people expect you to always be well dressed, looking perfect with the perfect hair, makeup and sometimes it feels like they can't have a...
bad day because if they have a bad hair day or on wearing makeup or on wearing an ugly outfit then they will be photographs and those photos can be found online forever.
We judge them quickly even though they're human just like us.
I say there is also difficult to know who your real friends are.
when you're a celebrity and to know which of your relationships are genuine.
I think that a lot of people would become your friend because you're famous and you're rich and expect to gain something return like pay more money or just attention.
And this can be hard for celebrities because they don't know who they can trust.
and they might become a bit lonely.
I know that a lot of celebrities are still friends with their friends who they met at school.
I believe this is because they met their friends before they actually became famous so they know that they are a true friend and they can trust them.
I also imagine that being famous can affect your mental health negatively.
because you have the constant pressure to look perfect and form well, which is impossible to keep up all the time.
The lack of privacy as well can lead to stress, anxiety and depression.
And I can imagine that they are always worried about how they look and how they act because
I'm sure that we've all thought about what we would do if we won the lottery.
So I thought it would be a good topic to talk about in today's video.
First we're going to see the responses to a survey that was carried out in the United States.
The surveys about what people would do if they won the lottery.
And some of their answers are quite surprising.
The majority of respondents said that they would tell their partner or their parents, but that was only 55% of their respondents, so I think that's quite low.
44% said they wouldn't tell them, but I don't think that this is very realistic.
I think that if you did win the lottery, then you would tell them.
I can't imagine.
It's okay to tell your family or your partner, but it's not a good idea to post anything about it on social media.
It's a good idea to not rush it.
You should take your time, go slow and think about each move carefully.
If you're not sure how to claim your prize, you will...
find the instructions on the lottery ticket and on the ticket agency's website.
I've read that you've got to make several photo copies of the front and the back of the ticket and to deposit the original lottery ticket in a safety deposit box in a bank so that you don't lose it or so that's it isn't stolen.
then you can hire a lawyer and a financial advisor because when you win the lottery you've got to pay tax so you have to make sure that you're not making any mistakes when it comes to taxes.
The lawyer might have to defend your claim to the lottery money because in some cases
is family or friends try to access the money.
People always say that money can destroy families and friendships and the lawyer and financial advisor can also avoid making mistakes when you are moving the money from another bank account or processing it.
You can also choose where to take annual
payments or a lump sum and your payments means that they will pay you every year whereas the lump sum means that you will have all of the money that you have won in your bank.
Apparently, taking the lump sum is a good idea if you want to invest it so that the value doesn't decrease over time but annual payments also have...
their advantage is because you would avoid making bad financial decisions and you wouldn't lose all that money in five years like I said before because you don't have all of that money in your account so you can't spend it.
It's important to be wise with your money after winning the lottery.
It also said that it should keep you...
a job if possible.
I suppose that this depends on the amount of money that you want.
It says that you should consider not quitting your job so that you can maintain a normal life.
It says you could try working part-time or taking a few months or years off.
If you want one million then I think that you wouldn't.
quit your job but if you want like 300 million then I think you would.
I don't think you would want to spend eight hours at work per day knowing that you've got enough money to survive.
People always say that you can make more money but you can never make more time so I think that is the rule I would follow.
What would you do if you-
not telling your partner or your parents because you would be so happy, especially if it's a large sum of money, maybe not if it's £20,000 because it's not life-changing.
But if it was a big sum of money, I think that you would tell your parents even though you answered no to this question.
I suppose it also depends on the relationship that you have with your partner.
parents if you don't get on well with them then they wouldn't notice because you're not in contact with them so much.
I found it quite funny that women are twice as likely to break up with their partner then men if they won lottery.
And what's quite sad is that 20% of people said that they would celebrate alone.
And only 52% said that they were party and celebrate with family and friends.
So now we're going to talk about what people would do with all the money that they won.
29% of people said that they would pay off existing debt, so they might have a more gauge a car to pay off.
or student loans because they went to university.
I thought that's quite low.
I expected more people to pay off their debt first.
Then the next thing that people would do is to put money aside to take care of their friends and family.
I don't know if this means that they would give it because...
And the phrase put money aside sounds like you're putting it in a bank account, especially for them, but it's under your control.
I think that I would just give money to them.
I wouldn't control it myself because I think that I would have enough things to think about.
And in the end, if you're giving them the money, they can spend it however they want.
They can spend it in the first month or they...
can save it.
It would be up to them, I wouldn't really mind.
And then 15% would invest the money.
I suppose that is the sensible thing to do because I know that a lot of people who have won the lottery in the past have gone bankrupt because suddenly you have all this money and you can spend it very quickly not realizing that you...
spending so much money every single day.
Something that I found really interesting while I was reading up on this topic was that 70% of lotto winners spend or lose all that money in five years or less.
That's why it's important to have a lawyer and financial advisor if you win the lottery.
Now we're going to talk about what to do if you win the lottery if you're one of those lucky people There's an expression in English which is you've got to be in it to win it So to win the lottery you've got to play the lottery.
I for example don't play the lottery So I'm definitely not going to win the first step is to Play the lottery to win But if you do win you should stay quiet about it
In today's video we're going to talk about YouTube, specifically how you can create a YouTube channel.
If you're listening to this, you are probably using YouTube.
Hopefully you're using YouTube.
If not, somebody has stolen my video.
The first thing that you have to do is think about what type of content you would like to make.
It has to be something that you are good at or something that you know about.
For example, if you don't know how to speak Chinese, you can't make videos teaching Chinese.
You've got to choose something that you're interested in and something that you're good at and want to show others.
I think that if you choose a niche that you enjoy, then the process of making videos will be a lot more enjoyable.
For example, if I didn't like teaching English, then...
English video.
So for example if you are making videos about recipes you would make sure that you put the keywords like chocolate cookies in your title of the video in the description box and in the tags section.
You can also create a playlist so that people can find your...
videos easily.
I think it's a good idea to do this when the videos are related to each other.
Like for example if you have made five videos about cookies then you could create a cookies playlist and then a separate section for five types of pizza that you have created.
There are also other options like end screens.
subtitles and cards.
If you have ever watched a video and at the end of the video it promotes another video like it popped up on the screen that is an end screen and it encourages people to click on other videos that you have created.
Cards divide your video into sections.
So if you're making a recipe video about cookies, you might divide it into the ingredients, the process and the cooking part.
This is optional.
You don't have to divide your video into cards.
I think that in some videos it makes sense to, especially when it's a tutorial, but if you're just talking in a video, I don't think you really need to.
And then the subtitle.
are created automatically by YouTube, but the problem is that they don't have any capital letters or full stops.
So it's a good idea to edit them once they have been generated automatically.
One of my favourite things to look at on YouTube Studio are the analytics.
So I can look at where people are watching my videos.
videos from which videos are the most popular, whether I have more male or female viewers, and what age groups watch my videos.
The one that I find the most interesting is the country's section, because I can see that people are watching these videos all over the world, and I think it's amazing that something you can really...
record in your house, have been listened to in so many other countries.
It really fascinates me and I don't think that I will ever get used to it.
If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up because interaction is good for our YouTube channel because it promotes your videos more and please subscribe because then you won't miss any videos in the future.
it would be hard to spend so many hours creating videos for people to watch because I wouldn't enjoy it.
Maybe you're interested in photography, fashion, cooking, gaming, anything that you find interesting.
Then you've got to think about what type of content it is going to be.
Is it going to be tutorials?
Is it going to be kind of used or樣...
parts of your own life like vlogs.
You've got to think about what you are going to show your viewers.
I think that the part of actually creating your channel is the easy part setting up the Google account and creating the YouTube channel is very easy because you only need to put your channel name, the description and
a profile picture.
The difficult part is finding viewers that want to watch your videos, especially at the beginning because nobody knows who you are and nobody knows what type of videos you are creating, so you have to attract your audience.
I would say that your first thousand subscribers are the most difficult ones.
to achieve because reaching a hundred is easy if you share it with your friends and family but a thousand is quite a lot of people that have to be interested in the topic and want to follow your channel if that makes sense.
Then you have to learn the basics so you have to learn about video editing and it might be a good idea to buy a good microphone.
and a good camera.
It depends on the content that you are making.
There are a lot of free resources and tutorials online to learn from, especially for video and audio editing.
I think that you can find all of this on YouTube, at least I do anyway.
One of the important things on YouTube is to be consistent.
I'm not saying that you have to upload.
videos every day but it's important to upload regularly.
That could be once a month or once a week but not for videos this week and no videos until three months time.
But what I have seen you to promote your videos more when you are consistent and I think that your subscribers appreciate it as well.
because they know when to expect new content.
There are so many things to learn about when you start making videos like for example keywords tags and what to write in the description boxes and the difficult part of this is that nobody really knows the exact science behind it and the algorithm.
often changes.
So the best that you can do is to put out quality content that you know that your subscribers will enjoy.
Key words are basically words that people search for, like for example, English podcasts or English listening, all of these were words that you might type in the search bar to look for.
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcasts.
In today's video we are going to talk about professions.
Doctors are the people who work at hospitals, clinics or medical centers.
You go to see a doctor when you are ill or you have a health problem.
They tell you to buy medication which you can buy at a pharmacy or chemists where pharmacists or chemists work.
Doctors work with nurses.
These help doctors to look at the patients when they are ill.
They take pictures of them for magazines, adverts or for social media.
Models often wear fashionable clothes which are made by hand by tailors.
Drivers are the people who drive.
vehicles.
There are different types of drivers like taxi drivers or train drivers.
However, the people who fly airplanes are called pilots.
If your vehicle has a problem, you take it to the mechanic where mechanic
If you have problems with the law, you might be arrested by a police officer, which is the neutral form for both men and women instead of police men and police women.
Lawyer is...
the person who will defend you.
If you go to court, a judge will decide if you are innocent or not.
Hairdresses were at hair salon.
They caught people's hair.
The people who caught men's hair and their beards are called b-
are the flowers.
Florists are the people who sell flowers at a florist for special events.
Gardeners are the people who look after flowers and plants.
They keep gardens tidy.
Fishermen are the people.
who catch fish.
They normally work on boats.
Thanks to them we can eat fish.
Farmers are the people who work on farms, usually with animals like chickens, pigs, cows, or sheep.
If you have enjoyed the...
or injured.
However, if you have a problem with your teeth, you go to the dentist where dentists work.
Teachers are the people who teach students in schools or academies.
The people who teach at universities are called lecture.
They teach all different subjects and their pupils learn from their classes.
Students study at a library where librarians work.
Books or cooks are the people who work at restaurants or cafes.
They cook food for their customers.
They buy meat from butchers who work at our butchers.
They sell sausages, burgers, steak, etc.
Restaurants get their bread, cakes and pastries from a bakery.
where bakers work.
Waiters, waitresses or servers, the neutral form for both men and women, also work at restaurants and cafes.
They are the people who take the food and drink to people's tables.
If you are building a house, you contract a builder.
The person who designs the house is called an architect.
A bricklayer is the person who builds houses using bricks.
If you need furniture made from wood.
you contract a carpenter.
They can make wooden chairs, tables and other types of furniture.
Electritions help you to install electric in your house, painters paint your walls and plumbers install the bath and
and the toilets.
Actors or actresses are the people who act in movies, series or plays at the theatre.
If you watch the news on TV, news readers will tell you what is happening in the world.
News readers are...
a type of journalist.
Journalists can also write in magazines or newspapers.
Authors or writers are the people who write books or novels.
Photographers who take photos can work with models.
In today's video we are going to be seeing ten cat idioms and expressions.
The first one is let the cat out of the bag, which means to reveal a secret carelessly or by mistake.
For example, when the actor let the cat out of the bag about his affair, he had to apologise publicly.
Cat got your tongue, which means when someone is quiet, not talking or not responding.
For example, what's the matter today?
You're so quiet.
Cat got your tongue.
Catten mouse, which means when one person confuses or deceives the other to control other animal.
or to avoid being caught and it usually goes back and forwards.
The criminal was playing cat and mouse with the police before he was arrested.
Curiosity killed the cat.
We use this as a warning to someone who is being too curious and is asking too many questions.
For example, you looked on his phone to see what he brought you for his birthday.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Be the cat's whiskers, which means to be important and superior, or at least to feel like you are.
For example, I can't stand him.
He's so self-centered.
He thinks he's the cat's whiskers.
whiskers.
Be a copycat, which means to be a person who copies someone else.
It's a childish expression, so children would normally use this.
I bought that jacket a week ago and now you have one the same.
You're such a copycat.
Cat fight.
A cat.
fight is a fight between women.
For example, apparently there was a big cat fight at the party last night.
A cat has nine lives, which means to get out of a difficult or dangerous situation without getting hurt or dying, like cats do.
For example, Poppy fell off a
yesterday so she only has eight lives left.
Look what the cat dragged in which is used to announce the arrival of someone that you dislike or disapprove of.
It's not a nice expression to use.
For example look what the cat dragged in I can't believe that they actually invited her.
In today's video we're going to look at 20 day idioms and expressions in English.
The first one is call is a day, which means to finish working for the day.
For example, let's call it a day and head home.
I've seen better days, which means to be old and in a bad condition.
For example, this 300-year-old hotel has seen better days.
It means that the hotel used to be in good condition, but now it isn't.
Back in the day, we use this to talk about something that you remember that happened in the past.
For example, back in the day, we used to send letters because people didn't have...
will not last much longer.
For example, with the way he behaves at work, I say his days are numbered.
So that means that you think that he won't stay in the company a lot longer because he will be fired.
Every dog has its day, which means that everyone will have success or good luck.
at some point in their life.
For example, don't worry if you didn't get that job.
Every dog has its day.
So it means that in some point in the future you will be successful or be lucky.
In this day and age, which means now or at the present time.
For example, I cannot believe that people are racist.
in this day and age.
In the cold light of day, we use this to talk about when you have had time to consider a situation objectively after an emotional experience.
So if you were very angry or very sad the night before and then you wake up the following morning and think about the scene.
situation.
You normally see it in a different way.
For example, in the cold light of day, I realized that I had over-reacted.
One day at a time, which means to deal with life problems gradually, focusing on the present.
Like step by step.
example don't worry just take it one day at a time.
This basically means to focus on getting through today and then we will worry about tomorrow when it comes.
End of the day which means ultimately or in conclusion.
At the end of the day you are the one who has choose what you want to do.
Daylight robbery.
This means that something is very expensive or has an unfair pricing.
For example, charging £10 for a cup of coffee is daylight robbery.
And lastly, we have Carpe Diem, which means to seize the day or make the most of the present moment.
computers.
It's like saying in the past but it's something that you are remembering that happened in the past.
Humpday.
This is an American expression and it means Wednesday which is the midpoint of the work week.
For example, we only have two more days to go.
Happy Humpday.
which means something that happens regularly over a long period of time.
For example, I have to do the same boring paperwork day in day out.
So you normally use this to talk about something that it feels like you have been doing forever and all the time.
The light of day which means to appear...
be published or made available to the public.
For example, the dark secrets of the company will never see the light of day, so it means that they will never be published or discovered.
So nobody will ever know about them.
Save the day, which means to provide a solution to a difficult problem.
or disaster.
For example, the bosses couldn't find a solution to the problem, but one of the workers saved the day.
Make a day of it, which means to make an activity last a whole day, not just some hours.
For example, we thought that we would spend a whole day of it.
only two hours at the zoo, but in the end we made a day of it, so it means that they spent the whole day there instead of just a few hours.
It's just one of those days, which means a day in which a lot of bad or unpleasant things happen.
For example, I lost my phone, had an on.
and received complaints at work.
It's just one of those days.
Night and day, which means to be completely different.
His transformation in the company has been like night and day.
He is such a good worker now.
So that means that he used to be a bad worker but no.
he's really good so it is completely different.
Night and day can also mean all the time.
For example, you're on the computer night and day.
You should take a break from it.
Day trip.
A day trip is an excursion that can be completed within a single day.
For example, we're planning a day trip to London, so that means that they will go to London and will come back home on the same day.
Make my day, which means to make someone very happy.
Your lovely comment made my day.
These are numbered, which means someone or something.
In today's video we're going to learn some phrasal verbs related to sports.
At the end we're going to see the definitions of these phrasal verbs and some examples.
A few months ago I thought about taking up running.
I knew that some of my friends liked to go running, so I asked them how often I needed to work out.
They told me that I should...
go running every day, maybe three times a week.
They gave me a few tips and reminded me of importance of warming up before going for a run.
They showed me a few stretching exercises that I could do to prepare my muscles and recommended a few YouTube channels which explain how to do these exercises correctly.
After I had learned.
park run website and you can find your closest local event.
Now we're going to see the phrasal verbs that we have learned in this video.
To warm up means to prepare your body to do exercise by doing gentle movements.
It's always important to warm up before you do exercise.
To cool down means to do gentle exercise.
To warm up means to do gentle movements.
To warm up means to do gentle movements.
exercises after you do physical activity to help your body to recover.
After my workouts I always cool down.
Workout means to do exercise.
I work out three times a week.
Kickoff means to start a game or event.
For example the football match kicks off at...
9 o'clock.
To cheer on means to encourage someone to do something well, normally by shouting.
At the race, the competitors family members were cheering them on.
To take on means to compete against another person in a sport.
For example, Manchester United will...
take on Tottenham next weekend.
To pull ahead means to take the lead in a race or a sports competition.
I tried to pull ahead in race but I wasn't able to because he was too fast.
The drop out means to stop participating.
For example, I decided to take the lead in a race
to drop out of a composition or I decided to drop out of college.
To catch up is to read the same level as another person.
So during the race I caught up with the person who was in third place.
To give up is to stop trying.
I tried to win but in the end I just gave
To take up means to start doing a newsboard or activity.
I have recently taken up jogging and painting.
To work off means to get rid of something through exercise, is normally stress or weight.
I'm trying to work off the weight that I gained at Christmas.
To sit out means to no longer participate in an activity.
I was going to play in the match but I decided to sit it out in the end.
Knock out means to eliminate someone from a competition.
Manchester City knocked Chelsea out of a competition.
The turnout means to participate or attend an event.
The turnout
the event was massive.
There were so many people there.
To throw in means to add something extra.
You might want to throw in some extra hours if you want to be the best on your team.
To blow away means to beat someone easily.
The winner of the right.
blue was all away.
To root for means to support someone.
I'm rooting for Manchester City this season.
Lastly, to bulk up means to gain muscle through exercise and by changing your diet.
I'm trying to bulk up these months to be stronger for the following season.
If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a...
and how to warm up.
I decided to kick off my first run ever.
One of my friends decided to come to cheer me on.
She started jogging a few years ago and she has always encouraged me to do more sport.
She told me that the best idea would be to take on a short race around the park in our city.
to get me motivated.
As my friend had been jogging for years, she was obviously a lot faster than me, but I tried to catch up.
I tried to pull her head of her, but it was impossible.
After about one minute of running, she slowed down so that she could be next to me.
At the beginning, it was quite funny, but...
After a few laps around the park, I started to feel a bit tired and I thought that I would have to give up, but my friend kept encouraging me.
She told me that I couldn't drop out now because there were only three minutes left.
After the run, we cooled down and had a slow walk all around the park.
I don't know why I was tired.
It definitely...
felt that I had worked off some stress.
After our walk we sat down for a bit and decided to sit out any more running for a few days.
She started to tell me about a running club that there was in my city and she said that it might be a good idea to try it out.
There's a good way to meet new people and stay motivated.
because you are running all together.
The club meets up on Saturday mornings so you have to throw in some extra effort because it's hard to wake up at 8 o'clock on a Saturday morning.
My friend was telling me about how she wanted to book up for next season so she's going to do more strength training and she will have to adapt her diet.
it.
She had signed up to a new gym and was training every two days.
We decided to try out the running club the following Saturday and the turnout was massive.
There were so many people there.
There were about 30 people.
I thought that it was really good because everybody could go at their own pace.
So you're all running together.
start, but later on everybody can run at their own pace and there is no competition.
People that were running at the front had obviously been running for some time and were extremely fast so they blew everyone else away.
There were a lot of people just watching as well and rooting for their partners or friends.
or family members and there was a really nice atmosphere.
The people that took it more seriously were trying to beat their own personal record, but you couldn't knock anyone out of the competition or the race because it wasn't competitive.
There were even some people who walked it.
If you're interested in joining one of these runs, you can go on to...
Last weekend I decided to buy a new laptop because my old one had stopped working.
The first thing that I did was to set it up.
I had to log in with my email address and come up with a new password.
After I had chosen my new password I typed it.
in.
It said that I needed to remember this password to log in to my laptop in the future.
I thought that the battery would be charged when I bought this new laptop, but it wasn't, so I had to plug it in to charge it.
Then, when I was logged in and I...
the internet, there were a lot of adverts popping up.
That means that there were a lot of adverts coming up on the screen.
I looked this problem up online and I found out that I had to download an ad blocker.
I also downloaded an antivirus program so that
nobody could hacking to my laptop.
Apart from these two problems, my new laptop is exactly what I was looking for.
The screen is very large, so I don't have to keep zooming in all the time.
On my old laptop, I had to zoom in and zoom out to see small text.
But that isn't a problem anymore.
The issue that I had with my battery has also been solved because the laptop runs out of battery after about 6 hours.
Like I said before, when I was talking about using an external mouse, the point of having a laptop is...
for you to be able to use the laptop on the sofa and not having it charging all the time.
I know that if you're connected to the internet and go online, it uses up more battery than if you go offline and I'm just using the laptop without internet.
But nowadays...
you don't do many things on a laptop without using the internet.
I even use the internet now to write on a document because if you write on a normal Word document you can lose it but if you go online and use a Google document it saves automatically.
and all of your files are backed up and this is great in case you close the document by accident especially if it is a work for university or another document which is really important.
If you have enjoyed this video please give it thumbs up and subscribe.
Thank you and I'll see you in the next one.
had put it on charge.
I decided to download the programs that I needed to edit my videos.
I thought that I had downloaded the correct one, but I didn't, so I had to uninstall it and find the right one.
After that, I went onto my Google account.
When I logged into my Google account, it asked if I wanted to back up my photos from my phone onto the laptop, but I pressed no.
I think that it's easy to fill up a new laptop with so many pictures and documents that you download off.
of the internet.
And this time with my new computer I wanted to reduce the amount of files that I have on it.
I clicked no and I clicked off of it and I clicked on to Gmail to check whether I had any emails.
I didn't so I decided to...
to log off from my account and turn the laptop off until it had more battery later.
After about 3 hours I turned it on again and the battery was fully charged.
The reason why I bought a new laptop was because the battery wasn't very good on the old one and because of the mouse.
with my old laptop I couldn't scroll through the content easily or smoothly.
It was difficult to scroll up and scroll down so I had to use an external mouse.
This wasn't very comfortable because in the end you use a laptop because you don't want to be set up at table.
but with the external mouse I had to be.
Now that I had already made an account, I logged in and it was all very easy.
Nowadays a lot of laptops have facial recognition system, which means that you can log in using your camera.
It can detect your face, but that wasn't necessary for me.
So I decided to buy a more traditional laptop.
I decided to sync up my devices, so I decided to connect my phone with my laptop.
This way it is easier if you need a document that is on your computer when you are not at home.
So you can go on your computer.
phone and find that document without having your laptop or computer.
What I didn't like about my new laptop was that I had to update some of the apps and the programs, even though their computer was new.
I don't understand why.
Also, when I went on to...
A few weeks ago I decided to go to Barcelona for a city break.
I set out on Friday afternoon because my flight was in the evening.
I packed up my bags and headed off to the airport.
I wanted to catch a taxi to the airport so I called up the taxi company.
pick me up about 20 minutes later.
I took off from Manchester Airport which is my closest airport and it was quite fun because we flew over where I actually live so I could see my house from the plane.
When I arrived at Barcelona I looked around and tried to find
So you can easily go for a walk on the promenade and see the yachts that are more there.
The weather was nice when I went, so on Sunday morning I sat on the beach for a few hours just watching the waves.
On Sunday afternoon I decided to go and see the Sagrada Familia again, which is one of the cathedrals.
I'm sure...
that you have seen that picture of it before.
The first time that I went, I couldn't get a good look at it because there were so many people, it was packed.
After that, I knew my journey was coming to an end and I looked back on all of the things that I had done in those two days.
It's funny when you're on holiday, it feels like you can do so many things in 48 hours.
whereas when you're at home you don't do that many things.
I took a look at my checklist and I made sure that I had checked of all of the items from my bucket list.
The city really did captivate me and I knew that I would be going back again especially for a city break because it's in my city to visit just for two or three days.
He's only a two-hour flight from England, so it's not too far for me.
On Sunday evening I packed up my souvenirs that I had bought and all of my things and checked out.
I was quite sad to set off for home because I felt like I could have stayed a few more days.
But I couldn't wait to...
get home to share about it with my friends and family.
When I arrived at Manchester I stayed over at one of my friends houses because she lived near the airport and we started looking at ways to backpack through Europe.
We actually came up with the idea that night and we f
it for next summer.
So that gives us something to look forward to.
It's always nice to get away for the weekend or for a few weeks, especially from the British weather, which isn't very nice.
If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.
Thank you very much and I'll see you in the next video.
where the taxi rank was.
So I took out my phone to look at Google Maps and realised that I could catch a bus to my hotel and that worked out a lot cheaper.
The bus only cost three euros whereas a taxi would cost about 20.
When I got to the hotel I checked in, took my things upstairs and got ready.
because I was ready to venture out and discover the local attractions.
I walked through the beautiful streets, checked out a few of the monuments, and then had some dinner at a restaurant that was near my hotel.
When I travel, I usually only book Bed and Breakfast, which includes a couple of hours.
accommodation and breakfast in the morning, but it doesn't include lunch or dinner.
I find that when I travel and I book full board or all inclusive, I don't spend so much time outside the hotel, so my idea was to explore Barcelona, try out some great restaurants and amazing.
food so this is why I only chose Ben breakfast.
On Saturday morning I woke up and I decided to join in on a guided tour.
There are quite a few free tours in the city.
It's not really free, you have to give a tip at the end of the tour but it's quite cheap.
It works out a lot cheaper than going on any other type of tour.
The guide pointed out quite a lot of interesting facts about the city and I took in some of the information.
Sometimes it's quite overwhelming when the guide keeps talking for two hours and in the end you can't process all of the information but I did enjoy it.
Then I decided to go on a tour bus to explore more places that were a bit...
through it or away.
I got off at almost every stop and it was a great idea because then I didn't have to keep catching different buses.
I only had to go to the bus stop where I had got off and wait for about 10 minutes.
I know that there are some people who don't like these tour buses because they keep pulling in to pick people up and drop people.
off and sometimes there is quite a lot of traffic.
For example in London it's not really worth it because there is so much traffic that you're sat in it for most of the time.
During the trip I ran into locals who were quite friendly and told me which was the best food to eat on the menus.
I tried out the
and some typical Spanish dishes and it really did live up to its reputation.
People often say that Spanish food is the best in the world and I would say it's in the top three.
There are so many museums, parks and hidden gems in Barcelona and I love the fact that it's right next to the sea
This video is the first video of a series which I'm going to be doing about idioms and expressions that we use in English quite often.
In this series I'm going to talk about these idioms and expressions, give some examples, and explain when we would use them in a natural way.
In this video...
we are going to learn how to use these expressions about giving and receiving advice.
The first one we have is don't get me wrong.
Don't get me wrong is very similar to expression.
I hate to say this but you would normally use these expressions when you're going to say something bad.
context, if I am planning to go to the beach, I might say, it's a good job that it's not raining today.
And if it did rain, I would say, it's a pity that it's raining.
Another way they might react is by saying, spare me the details.
You normally say this when you don't want to know all the details and everything that happened.
It's quite rude to say it, so I wouldn't recommend saying it to people that you're not friends with.
Imagine if your friend is going to tell you a story of what happened to him yesterday, and the story kept going on and on and on and never ended.
You would say, Spermy the details, come on, tell me what happened.
Now let's imagine that you are asking for it.
advice and you want to check that it is okay with someone.
So for example I have done something at work and I want to check it with my boss so that he or she can confirm that it's correct.
In English we would say to run something past someone or to run something by someone.
So...
But if I go to my boss and I say, is it okay if I run something past you?
It means can you check it and give me some advice on it?
In another context, if you have booked to go on holiday with someone and you want to check that the time of the flight is okay, you can call your friend and run it by...
them to make sure that is correct.
And lastly, another expression that I like is to not take no for an answer.
It means that someone is not going to accept no as the answer to something.
For example, if one of my friends asked me to go to a music festival,
and she says to me, do you want to come to the music first of all?
I won't take no for an answer.
It means that she won't accept the fact that I say no.
So I have to say yes.
Let me know in the comments section which one of these expressions you think you will use the most.
I think that in my day to day life I use the expression is a good
So maybe you're giving someone a piece of advice that they don't want to hear or you're giving them some bad news.
They're normally followed by but, so you would say don't get me wrong but, or I hate to say this but, for example, don't get me wrong, I think you're beautiful but that dress doesn't suit you.
Or, I hate to say this.
but that dress doesn't look very good on you.
Okay, let's move on to the next one.
If somebody is asking for a piece of advice, you can say, if I were you, or if I were in your shoes.
So you're saying that if you were that person, that is what you would do.
For example, if I say, if I were you, I would go to you.
university and then get a job.
Or if I were in your shoes I would go to university and get a job.
If you go up to someone to offer them some advice then you would normally say, I've been meaning to talk to you.
That means that they have been wanting to talk to you for one.
but they haven't had the chance to.
For example, I've been meaning to talk to you about the argument you had with your girlfriend.
Is everything all right?
So you basically use it to start a conversation with someone to offer them some advice.
Be careful with the word advice, because a lot of people say, are advised or are advised, but the word advice...
is uncountable, so you have to say some advice or a piece of advice.
A very direct way to tell someone that you want to offer them some advice is by saying let me give you some free advice.
For example, let me give you some free advice.
I would accept the job offer if I were you.
If you're giving someone some advice and they say easy for you to say that, they are saying that it's easy for you to do it but not for them.
For example, if I told someone that it's easy to do a presentation in English, they would say easy for you to say that because it's easy for me because I'm English but not for them.
because they are learning English, for example.
Some other expressions that people might use when they respond to your advice is it's a pity or it's a shame.
So they might say it's a pity I didn't ask for advice before or it's a shame that I didn't ask you.
advice earlier.
It means that they are disappointed that they didn't do it earlier.
The opposite would be, it's a good job that, so for example, is a good job that I ask you for advice.
It means that they are glad that they asked you for advice.
It means that they are relieved.
In another
One of the most common questions that I get on this channel is about watching series in English.
People asked what are some good series to learn English, whether they should use subtitles and in what language.
What they should do if they don't understand certain phrases or words among other questions.
So in today's video we're going to be answering them.
The first question is how can I improve my language skills by watching series?
Watching TV shows and movies in English can help you to learn vocabulary and to improve your comprehension.
You can learn how words pronounce as well.
In the end, the more hours you are immersed in a language, the more you are going to learn.
easier so you will probably understand it better.
Another question that people ask is how they can understand cultural references in the series.
For example the other day I was watching Friends.
Friends was a popular series in the 90s and it was first filmed 30 years ago.
and it was filmed in the United States.
So when I'm watching friends there are many references that I don't get, I don't understand them because I wasn't even born when it was filmed.
So if you don't understand cultural references, I don't think it matters.
Normally cultural references are used for jokes.
But it doesn't.
doesn't mean that you won't understand what is happening in the episode.
When I was learning another language and I watched a series to improve my level in that language, I always kept a notebook next to me.
I didn't write down every single word that I didn't understand, but if there was a word that kept...
coming up and I saw it four times in that episode and I didn't understand what it was.
Then I wrote it down and looked it up later or the following day when I was studying.
So it might be a good idea to write some words down but remember to make sure that watching the series doesn't become a chore of something.
and boring that you don't want to do.
Some people ask if it's a good idea to rewatch episode or whether they should always watch something new.
I think that this depends on each person and their patients.
If you have a lot of patients and you don't mind watching the same episode over and over, then that's fine if it
for you then is good.
What I used to do was I used to play a few episodes and watch them and then later on while I was cleaning or doing something else I used to leave the episodes playing in the background so I could listen to what they were saying and I kind of knew what was happening at that moment I was.
episode anyway.
And the last question we are going to answer today is whether you should watch series with British accents or American accents.
I think that is good to get used to both.
I have a British accent but the series that I normally watch are within American accent because most of the films are American aren't they?
If you are starting to learn English, then start with the accent that is the easiest for you and then later on you can go with the other one.
So if you think that the American accent is easier, start with an American show until you improve your level and then you can go with a British one.
People often ask what are some good theories to learn English and it mostly depends on what you like in your native language.
For example, if you like science fiction films in your native language, but you don't like romantic comedies, I'm not going to recommend you watch romantic comedies because you will probably watch one film.
and then you'll stop watching series of films in English because you're not interested in them.
So the idea is to find a movie or series that you enjoy normally and then watch it in English.
I always recommend sitcoms.
sitcoms are comedy shows like friends, how I met your mother or the big fan theory and the event.
normally occur in the same place.
So in friends they are always at their house or at the cafe called Central Park.
I think that they are a good way to learn the language because it's day-to-day life.
Like in friends they talk about their job, their relationships or their friendships.
So...
vocabulary that they use is more day-to-day, daily life vocabulary.
But if you chose a series which was about a hospital or doctors, then the vocabulary that they use is much more difficult and maybe even I wouldn't understand the words that they are saying.
So the idea is that you...
choose a series that you like and maybe get into the habit of watching it every day from 8 o'clock until 9 o'clock in the evening before you go to bed and that way you look forward to it and it doesn't feel like homework, it doesn't feel like a chore.
The next question is should I use subtitles?
and if so, in which language?
I speak a few languages and when I was learning the other languages and I watched series, it was too confusing for me to have the series in one language and the subtitles in my native language, which is English.
It was so confusing and I didn't understand
what they were saying and it was too confusing.
So I always recommend putting the subtitles in English if you are learning English and maybe if you don't understand anything with the subtitles in English maybe the series is too difficult.
If you don't understand anything even with the subtitles in English.
maybe you should change to a children's program, film or series.
There are so many children's movies that you can watch like Shrek or Monsters Inc. or Finding Nemo, even Toy Story.
The vocabulary that they use in those movies is a lot.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 151 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great and that your language learning is going well and that you're progressing with your English.
And in today's episode, we're going to talk about another language related topic.
more specifically, I want to talk about my experience learning Italian.
So last episode, I talked about my experience learning Spanish and in this episode I want to give kind of a recap of my Italian challenge.
A recap is like a summary, short summary of something else.
Italian because it's similar to Spanish and I wanted to simulate this situation of English speaker or Spanish.
So I decided to do Italian and my goal was to show people what they can possibly do during the first 100 days of learning Spanish or another language.
and if they're starting from scratch and what types of resources to use, how much time to spend doing different activities, things like that.
So that's why I did this challenge.
And so my approach, your approach refers to your method of solving some issue or whatever, my approach.
But of course, it was very input-based because I am a language learner who focuses on input.
That is listening and reading.
So my approach was very input-based in order to learn a lot of words and phrases just through hearing them again and again.
and then also to understand native speakers.
Well, that was my focus for these 100 days.
So what did I use?
Well, I used kind of like a beginner language course for Italian that had a lot of dialogues that I repeated.
I listened to them again and again and again.
And there were a lot of repetition.
There were also some exercises that I did, but that wasn't the main focus of using this resource.
I just really wanted a beginner resource with a lot of dialogues, natural Italian, just to be able to expose myself to a lot of essential words and phrases and get a f-
feel for the language.
When you get a feel for something, this means that you kind of start to get a taste of something or start to experience it a little bit.
So I wanted to get a feel for the language by using one of these beginner courses, but it was more just to listen to.
the dialogues again.
So I had that and I also did a lot of reading.
I used the website link l-i-n-g-q link.com because it makes reading really easy.
So I used the basic mini stories they call them.
are available for the different languages.
I read through all of these stories.
I saved the new words that I didn't know.
I repeated these stories multiple times.
I listened to them because they also have audio for those stories.
So I did a lot of reading every day.
And I also listened mainly to Italian teachers on YouTube, but I didn't use their videos where they explained grammar rules.
I'm not interested in that.
I just used their videos that were designed more for listening comprehension.
So they were talking about different topics and I listened and...
peded, used the subtitles sometimes, sometimes.
No.
I used different types of repetition.
So, for example, for a time period, I was listening to the same, I forget how many minutes of the video, but I was listening to the same part five times.
And the first time I used the subtitles.
So, I want to give a recap of my Italian challenge because as many of you probably remember, I mentioned, I don't know how many episodes ago, but I mentioned some episodes ago that I was doing a 100-day challenge to learn Italian, to see what type of results I could get.
titles in Italian and then the second time in English and then the third time in Italian then English and then the last time without subtitles.
So I did that for another time period.
I just listened four times.
I didn't use the English subtitles and I did different types of repetition and I mentioned that because...
I don't think there's only one way to use repetition.
I think there are multiple ways that you can benefit from repetition and using the subtitles or the transcript like with this podcast.
Right?
Some of you might prefer to repeat the episodes by first using the transcript, the first time you listen, and then without the transcript and so on.
But some of you might prefer to listen the first time without the transcript.
And then the second time with the transcript and then the third time without the transcript again.
That's one way that I think is really good for repetition with this type of content.
But there are different preferences and I think they're all beneficial in their own ways.
So I did.
different types of repetition with listening practice.
And I used different levels of videos.
Of course, I started with more basic content where the person was talking pretty slowly.
But then I started listening to other teachers that actually talk faster.
And so I tried to kind of move up.
in terms of the difficulty of the content that I was using.
And I even listened to some conversations between two Italian people.
So I even used completely native level content a little bit.
And that was also really helpful for me.
So I did a lot of input as you can see.
And...
I only did 10 minutes of grammar per day for the first 50 days.
I didn't even do it for the full 100 days.
And I only did it for 10 minutes a day for the first 50 days.
And it was very unorganized.
I just spent 10 minutes on a grammar website looking over different explanations.
and looking at the examples, doing a few exercises, but that wasn't my focus really.
But I just added in that grammar because I know that many people feel like they need grammar.
Even though they probably don't really need to focus that much on grammar, they feel like they need it.
10 minutes was...
max.
I didn't want to spend any more time on grammar because it wasn't helpful.
It was barely helpful at all to be honest.
It helped a little bit in the sense that I kind of recognized some of the rules that I learned from this grammar practice when I was doing my reading and my listening, but that wasn't...
really that big of a deal.
That wasn't that big of a help for me, but I did that grammar because I know people will want some grammar in their language learning.
And of course if you're learning a language that's completely different from your own, I recommend that you use a grammar resource at the beginning.
to help you get familiar with the rules, with the language.
I'm not saying that you shouldn't do grammar, but I think what I'm trying to say is don't spend a lot of time on grammar.
10 minutes was enough for me every day, and that's because Italian is very similar to other languages that I know.
If I were doing a more difficult language...
in 100 days learning for about two hours a day.
So I am just finishing that challenge this week and so I thought it would be good to talk about this in a podcast episode.
I was gonna make a YouTube video about this but honestly I don't really feel like doing that.
I'd rather just
a language that's not at all related to my languages.
Then I would probably spend a little more time on grammar, but I would try to kind of not continue on with grammar forever, just because I feel like I should.
No, as soon as I feel like I don't really need anymore grammar explanation.
Then I want to just stop and then only do it later on if I have some specific questions with grammar.
I want to look up some explanation or whatever.
But I think that for me, if I learn another language that's a lot harder than Italian, I'll do a little grammar at the end.
the beginning, but I'll try to kind of move past that pretty early on so that I don't really have to do much grammar and I can just focus more on listening and reading and eventually speaking.
And lastly, what I did was that I started speaking at about 90 days.
And I've only done one session.
of speaking, but I am going to do two more this week and then I'll be done with this challenge.
I'm not going to continue on with Italian after this, but I wanted to do at least a few sessions of speaking after 90 days just to see if it was possible to see if 90 days was enough for me to start using...
Italian tutors to have conversations.
So that's what I did with my challenge and what were my results.
How is my Italian now?
Well, I can understand a good amount.
I'm actually very satisfied with my comprehension.
I think that I can understand easier Italian very well, but I really like the beat.
Italian that Italian YouTube teachers use when they talk in their videos, I can understand them very well for the most part unless they're using really specific words that I haven't come across yet.
And I can listen to those teachers without subtitles and I understand almost everything.
So I'm happy about that.
Obviously, I can't just understand normal Italian people talking to each other fast.
I can't understand that well.
Obviously, I need much more practice with that.
But for example, in my first session with my Italian tutor, I understood every word that he said.
I want 100% of what he said I understood.
And for me, that's awesome.
I want to understand the person that's talking to me, that's my main goal at this level of learning language.
So I'm very satisfied with how my comprehension has improved throughout this challenge.
And it's only been 90 days, right?
It's not a lot.
So, I think that that's pretty cool that I can understand a lot.
Obviously, a big reason why I can understand so much already is because the talent is so similar to Spanish and French and Portuguese.
So obviously that helps me a lot, but there are also a lot of words that aren't related to Spanish words, for example.
And I can often...
understand a lot of these words that don't have a similar word in another language that I speak.
So I'm happy with my comprehension but when it comes to speaking I'm not really comfortable having conversations at this point.
There's a big gap between my listening.
talk about this challenge in an episode.
So that's what I'll do today.
I'll talk about how I learned Italian and what I did and what my results were after this 100-day period.
So I'm sure this will be an interesting topic for you today and I think that there are definitely some lessons to take.
and speaking, a gap refers to a big hole or space between two things, but this is normal.
I think there should be a big gap at the beginning between your listening and your speaking.
That's normal.
I want to understand the other person first before I really dive in and have a bunch of conversations.
I don't feel comfortable speaking.
I'm missing a lot of words and I mix my languages.
I say some things that are Spanish or Portuguese by accident and that's normal.
However, I can start to have conversations.
I was able to have a conversation, almost completely in Italian.
Of course, my tutor helped me.
to me a lot and I had to translate certain words but I was able to start to benefit from that type of practice using an Italian tutor.
So if I were to continue on with Italian, I think that I could continue having these conversations and they would be beneficial for me.
And I'm happy about that.
because again it's only been 90 something days, almost 100 days and I can already start to use an Italian tutor.
That's great.
However in reality I would still prefer to wait longer before talking.
If I weren't doing this challenge and if I were just learning Italian because...
I wanted to, then I would wait longer.
I would wait more time before I start speaking because I don't feel comfortable yet speaking.
I can start to do it.
I did it during our first session, but I want to feel more comfortable.
I want to have more experience with the language, more input before I start speaking.
I'm okay starting right now with Italian, starting speaking right now, but in reality I would prefer to wait longer.
But many people prefer to start speaking earlier and that's okay.
And maybe if you were in my situation you would start taking classes like this and you would benefit.
from them because you can understand the other person and you can say some things.
So for some people that might be a great time to start.
For me, I'd prefer to wait.
So those are my results with my listening and my speaking.
And there are just a few lessons that I wanted to mention here at the end.
can take away from my experience.
The first lesson is that this method works.
Using a lot of input like this, reading and listening and repetition really works.
I learned a lot of words.
I can understand a lot.
My comprehension is pretty good for only having learned for less than 100 days.
and I can even start using an Italian tutor and having a conversation in Italian, 100% in Italian.
So this method works, and I will recommend it to the English speakers that have been asking me how to learn Spanish.
So I'm happy to say that this method that works, I'm satisfied with it.
Obviously, you don't just stop.
after 100 days you have to continue on with this and get a lot more practice do a lot more speaking so this is just talking about the first 100 days so for the first 100 days of learning language this type of method definitely works I'm gonna recommend it so happy about that another thing I took away from this
away from this experience as well.
So I'll talk about those lessons at the end.
And so I'm sure you'll like this topic.
And remember that if you feel ready for my advanced podcast episodes, you can sign up for those by becoming a listening time family member and you'll get two new advanced episodes every month.
The link is down below and you can also sign up for my US.
is that I didn't like how strict my learning was.
I tried to do exactly two hours of learning every day and this artificial time limit is just too strict.
It made it a little bit annoying for me.
It made me lose some of my motivation, concentration, etc.
So...
I definitely won't do it like this in the future with other languages.
I'll have a goal of wanting to learn for two hours a day maybe, but I'm not going to time myself and say, okay, I'm done.
14 minutes.
Now I need to do another one hour and 46 minutes.
Exactly.
No.
I'm not going to do that.
I'm just going to have a goal by be flexible with it.
That's going to make it easier to learn and it won't be annoying because I won't force myself to complete the two hours even if I don't feel like it that day.
Right?
So another lesson to take away from this is to allow yourself the freedom of learning how you want to learn or the amount of time.
that you feel like you can learn, of course, try to spend as much time as possible learning if you have the goal to learn a language, but don't be super strict and stress out about not competing with two hours exactly.
You only did an hour and 45 minutes.
That's not a big deal.
You want to allow ourselves a
bit of freedom with this language learning is not the most important thing in our lives.
We can be a little bit flexible here, right?
And if we're not so strict, it will be more fun for us for sure.
So that's another lesson.
And then maybe the biggest lesson that I took away from this, that I already mentioned my last episode is that motivation.
is everything.
I'm really emphasizing this here.
Obviously it's not everything literally, not literally everything, but it's the biggest key, the biggest factor, because I lost motivation during this challenge.
About halfway through the challenge, I was not really interested in learning Italian anymore because I realized
that I wasn't going to continue on with this after the challenge.
So I didn't really take it seriously.
I wasn't concentrating well during my practice.
And so I was really disciplined.
I did like two hours every day, but that discipline wasn't enough for me to really learn as much as I could have learned because I was lacking the most.
So, discipline is definitely important, but we don't want to only focus on being disciplined.
Because if you don't have motivation, you're not going to learn that much.
And I feel like I improved a lot during the first half of this challenge, but I didn't improve as much during the second half because I lost that motivation.
So, the method was good, but I didn't have the motivation to go along with the good method.
So, like I learned Spanish with a really bad method, a really disorganized method, but my motivation was so strong that I learned it well, even though I didn't have the ideal method.
So, we want to have a good method.
And we want to have discipline, but we really want to be motivated.
That's so important in language learning.
Don't just ignore this part.
I know some of you might be more focused on kind of the technical aspects of learning a language.
And I kind of am too.
However, this motivation factor is huge.
I saw this really clearly during this time.
conversations podcast, if you feel ready to practice with two people speaking instead of just one.
The link is also down below in the description.
And as always, please share this podcast with anyone else you know who's learning English and please give it a five-star rating and writer review you can.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what?
So make sure that you're motivated.
Okay, I think I'm going to do a whole episode about motivation and discipline in the future because I really want to explore this topic a little bit more after having seen kind of the effect of losing motivation during this challenge.
So that's another lesson to take away.
And one last lesson.
is there will definitely be a big gap between your speaking and your listening when you start speaking but don't be worried about this.
It's gonna happen but you'll get over it and when you start speaking eventually your speaking skills will improve a lot and that gap will become smaller.
Okay, it will shrink.
So there will definitely be a gap between
you're speaking and listening when you start speaking, but that's normal.
Don't worry about this.
All right.
So those are the lessons that you can take away and that I took away from this challenge.
And I hope that this was interesting for you.
I hope you feel motivated to really continue on with your English or maybe learn another language.
Like I mentioned in the last episode, if you want to learn.
Spanish, you can use my wife's podcast, sweet and simple Spanish.
I'll probably leave the link down below again this episode because I just mentioned it.
But whatever language that you're learning, I hope that you continue on, you stay motivated and you have fun with it.
Okay?
Alright, as always remember that you can access my advanced episodes if you become a listening time family member and you can also...
time it is, it's listening time.
Alright, let's talk about my Italian challenge.
So just to remind everyone why I did this challenge, I was not at all interested in learning Italian.
I didn't have this desire before this challenge.
There's nothing wrong with Italian.
It's an amazing language and beautiful language.
I love it, but...
It just wasn't on my radar.
It just wasn't a goal that I had.
But I wanted to do this challenge because many people come to me for advice on learning a language, specifically learning Spanish if they're an English speaker.
And I wanted to kind of simulate what it would be like for...
a native English speaker to learn Spanish from scratch, from zero.
But I already speak Spanish and I already know a lot of Portuguese and French.
So I wasn't able to do this with any of the other similar languages.
However Italian was a language that I had never.
So I chose it.
New Year's is a very important celebration in England.
It's a time when people come together to say goodbye to the old year and welcome the new one with festivities, fireworks and traditional customs.
The old year finishes on 31st of December and the new year begins on...
1st January.
The 1st of January is called New Year's Day whereas the 31st of December is called New Year's Eve.
The main New Year celebrations happen on the 31st of December.
The main cities and towns across England light up with...
kiss at midnight.
Another important aspect of New Year's are New Year's resolutions.
People usually reflect on the past year and set resolutions for the next one.
These resolutions are normally about your personal goals, so things that you would like to improve.
So for example, you might want to start improving your fitness.
So you might say that you are going to go to the gym three times a week this year.
Or you might just decide to have healthier habits, such as eating healthier or using your mobile phone less or less social.
media and other people might set new career goals.
Maybe they would like to receive a higher salary before the end of this year, spend less time working and more on their personal life or get a promotion and become a boss for example.
Not everyone likes...
setting New Year's resolutions because a lot of people say that if you haven't started a new habit already then it doesn't make sense to start doing it in January.
For example if you said in November that you wanted to start going to the gym three times a week then it's the same as
if you say that in January.
I think that it doesn't harm anyone in setting goals and it could be a motivation for a lot of people.
The new year is a reminder to reflect on what you have achieved in the past year and reconsider what point you are at.
It makes...
you think whether you like your dog, whether you think you are in good health, and whether you have healthy habits or a healthy lifestyle.
And not everyone who sets these goals actually follows them throughout the year.
In fact, they say that gyms have a lot of members in January, but by the time they have set down mocha.
they don't have so many clients because people don't follow their New Year's resolutions.
Well, New Year's Eve has lively celebrations.
New Year's Day, so the first of January, is a more relaxing day.
People use this day to rest and recover from the celebrations of the preview.
night as many people stay up until the early hours of the morning.
In some families they gather for a special New Year's day meal and it is a roast dinner like always.
New Year's Day is a bank holiday in England so people make the most of this day to start.
with their new year's resolutions, so they might go for a run to stay fit, they might have a healthy meal and they are generally a lot more motivated than usual.
One thing that I would like to mention before we finish is that in recent years fireworks displays have been replaced with drone displays.
These drones are special and they have light and they can change colour.
They are programmed to make different shapes and pictures depending on the event.
They are being used as a replacement for fireworks because of the fact that they are better.
fireworks displays.
You have probably seen the famous fireworks display in London when you turn your TV on 1st of December.
The people who live in London and enjoy this celebration would go to the centre of London to see this display.
There are some parks and
for the environment and because of the safety hazards caused by fireworks which can easily create explosions.
It is also better for pets because if you have a cat or a dog, I'm sure that you will know that these animals get very scared when they hear normal fireworks.
I fight.
and other areas where you can see the skyline of the city, so the shape of all of the famous buildings in London, and the fireworks in the sky and is beautiful.
Other people go along the river Tens in London or to the concert that is held right in the sky.
front of the firework display.
However, it can get very busy.
So, if you are someone who doesn't enjoy being in crowded spaces, this is not the place all the time for you to visit.
The firework display starts at 12 o'clock, so when the clock strikes midnight on December 31st.
usually tune in to watch this live on TV.
So you might be at a party or a family gathering and you would turn the TV on to watch the countdown.
Parties and gatherings are one of the main events on New Year's Eve.
Many people attend private parties which are hosted by
friends and family, whereas others prefer to celebrate at pubs or clubs and other public events.
pubs and bars are open until very late on this special occasion and people spend time together laughing, listening to music and dancing.
Depending on
on how your year has been.
You might be laughing and smiling because the year is over because it was a horrible year or you might be celebrating the great moments that you have shared the past year.
Many people drink a lot of alcohol at these parties and gatherings.
and sparkling wine are the most common drinks.
But people also eat too.
The main tradition is to have a special New Year's Eve dinner, which is basically a roast dinner with roast meats, vegetables and then dessert.
People have the dinner then they...
spend time having fun chatting laughing and dancing until it is 12 o'clock when the bells strike.
In case you didn't know it is the times of big bend that we can hear when we watch the countdown.
As you have probably seen in films people usually laugh.
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcasts.
In today's video we're going to be talking about New Year's resolutions.
First I'm going to be asking my mum some questions about them and then I'm going to be telling her some ideas for New Year's resolutions that she can make and she's going to be saying if they're a good idea or not.
So
first question is why do you think that people make New Year's resolutions?
I think that a lot of people have had free time over the Christmas holidays to reflect on their lifestyle and their life and they decide that the New Year is a good time to start again to reset their lifestyle.
What are New Year's resolutions that people
hydrated and if you start in January then by the time the summer comes you'll be really drinking a lot of water all the time and it'll be very good for you.
The next one is calling family members more.
I don't think that that should be a new year's resolution but maybe after you've spent time with your family at Christmas.
on that new year, you realise that you really should keep in touch more rather than just texting them.
You could have a actual phone conversation with them or a video call.
The next one is reducing your screen time.
So that is the amount of time that you spend looking at your phone, your laptop or your tablet.
I think we could all do this one as a new year's resolution.
is good to realise how much you use your phone and you might sleep better at night if you reduce the amount of time you spend on your screens.
Yeah, I think it's quite scary the amount of time that we spend on social media.
You can go on your phone and you can look at how much time you spend on each platform.
So on Instagram you might spend 30 minutes a day.
That is a lot of time, isn't it?
It is a lot of time if you think you could use Instagram, Facebook, TikTok, if you added it up.
It would add up to a lot of hours in a day.
And the final New Year's resolution is organising or tidying something every month.
I think this would be a very good idea.
You could write on each month of the calendar.
and a different room or a different cupboard that you could do each month.
And this would benefit you a lot.
I think this is a very good one.
I could do this.
I think that you could declutter everything you have in that room.
And even if there are five rooms in the house, you could probably do them twice a year.
Possibly but I think they're doing one room.
in one day might be too much, so you could spread it so that you do bedroom through one month.
So it's not just one day a month.
So you could plot it on your calendar that you do your wardrobe one day, other cupboards another day, and you'll make up drawer another day.
So it doesn't seem such a big chore to do in one day.
So at the beginning of the video you said that you weren't going to make any New Year's resolution this year.
Have these ideas inspired you?
Yes, they have, because normally when I think of New Year's resolutions it's to give up something or to try harder at something.
But I like the idea of trying something new every month.
And also the idea of reducing the screen time.
especially on my mobile phone.
Yeah I think that they would be good ideas to follow even though you don't consider it a New Year's resolution and you aren't strict with it, it's something good to take into consideration.
So in today's video we have talked about New Year's resolutions.
If you have enjoyed this video please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.
Thank you!
normally make.
I think the most New Year's resolutions are about having a healthy diet or exercising more, not too much of a change but enough of a change to make a difference in their life.
Do you normally make New Year's resolutions?
No, I don't normally make any New Year's resolutions.
Why not?
Because I'm...
happy with my diet and my exercise plan so I don't feel that there's anything I need to change at the moment.
And I also think that if you want to make a change you can make it during your year, can't you?
So if you realise in August that you need to make change in your life you can start that change in August rather than waiting until January to make that change.
Yes, but like I say, I think that people have time to reflect and talk with friends and family over Christmas.
And also it's like a fashion or a fad that in January people would always ask you, have you made any new years resolutions?
And so people like to be prepared for that question.
Right, now we're going to be talking about some new years resolutions that are popular.
And...
And I want you to say whether you think that they're a good idea or not.
So the first one is going to bed earlier.
I think it's a good new year's resolution for some people because a lot of people stay up late watching Phil, watching Netflix and then the next morning when they get up to go to work they're tired and it becomes a routine for people.
So it could be a good idea to check.
your routine to feel better in the mornings.
What do you think about trying something new each month?
I think that's a really good one.
I think I could try to do that.
Not so much as a new year's resolution to stick to, but I think it's a good idea to try a new sport or hobby just to change your routines really.
What are some things that you would like to try?
I would like to go on some day courses or afternoon courses for cooking or crafts or pottery.
I think that would be a good idea because then you can try out whether you like that activity for one day and you don't have to buy all of the materials.
So you go there, do the course and if then if you like it you can go back home and buy them the tube.
to continue that hobby.
Yes, that's true, although the downside is that these courses can be quite expensive and a friend of mine has gone on a few courses and has been disappointed with the results.
But it's a good way to meet new people and to try new things.
The next New Year's resolution is limiting alcohol.
What do you think about that?
I think it can be a good New Year's
resolution for someone who's realized they've drunk a lot of alcohol over the holidays and they want to change this.
There aren't normally a lot of parties and celebrations after Christmas and New Year's so this is a good time to restart your lifestyle.
Okay the next one is drinking more water.
Yes I think this is a very good New Year's resolution.
It's a good idea to keep...
Dr. Jones was a great scientist.
He spent all of his time creating robots.
The robots could do a lot of things like move their arms, walk and stay short sentences like normal robots do.
The robots were quite clever, but Dr. Jones always wanted to create.
a special robot, a robot that could think like a human being.
After years of creating them, he finally built a robot that was intelligent and could talk with humans in a natural way.
At first, Dr. Jones was very excited with his new robot.
The robot wasn't so dangerous, so the scientist felt more relaxed.
But he felt a little bit sad because the robot was now like a normal robot.
It wasn't special.
After that day, Dr. Jones always remembered the dangers of creating robots.
He knew that he had to be very careful.
careful because one of these robots could be the end of the world.
Now we have some questions and I'd like you to answer the questions and write the answers in the comment section so that I can correct you.
The first question is, why did he feel like the best scientist in the world at the beginning?
How did he feel when the robot became violent?
What was the robot doing when he turned it off?
And finally, what did Dr. Jones remember after this experience?
If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.
Thank you very much.
It was amazing and he felt very proud of it.
He felt like he was the best scientist in the world.
Wait until everyone sees my amazing robot he thought.
The robot was very intelligent so it learnt to do things quickly.
It could talk like a huge...
make funny jokes, play games, etc.
However, after a few weeks he saw that the robots started to change a lot.
Before it was friendly with humans but everything changed in a few weeks.
It got angry when the scientists talked to it and started shouting.
being horrible to him.
The robot was very violent and the scientist began to hate him.
At first, Dr. Jones thought it was a problem with the programming of the robot, but soon he saw that it did strange things.
The robot always shouted.
at Dr. Jones and ordered him to do things.
Before the scientist ordered the robot to do things, but not now.
The robot was in control.
The scientist was scared because the robot that he had created could be a very big problem for the world.
Dr Jones was worried about the robot and its power.
He never expected the robot to have power.
He watched the robot 24 hours a day and didn't sleep because he felt so scared.
He didn't tell anyone about the robot because he thought that someone would copy his idea.
which would be very dangerous.
Imagine 1,000 robots like this, he said.
He knew he needed to do something fast to protect himself and the world.
One night, Dr. Jones slowly went near the robot when it was resting and turned it off.
The scientist studied it all night but he felt sad and he missed the robot so he decided to find the problem.
The real problem was that the robot was too intelligent.
It could learn very quickly, it could think, it could get angry and it could be in control just like humans.
The scientists changed the robot and after that it didn't have so much intelligence.
The next day he turned on the robot and was happy because it wasn't as powerful as before.
It couldn't think it learnt slowly and it wasn't angry all of the time.
The next day he turned on the robot and was happy because it wasn't as powerful as before.
It was Christmas 2021 when I first thought about going to London for a holiday.
I was sitting in my bedroom, chatting to my friends, when they were talking about going on holiday in 2022.
They were thinking about going to Milan, Paris or Rome.
However, I wanted to go to an English-speaking country, so I thought that I would revisit
it London.
The last time I had gone to London was with my parents when I was 10 years old.
Now I could travel on my own and do what I wanted to do.
I decided to take my holiday in July 2022 when I hope the weather in London would be sunny and warm.
I booked my flights with Ryan out on their website.
My phone...
returned to the hotel, so I went straight to sleep.
On my third full day I decided to go to the Harry Potter studios near Watford, which is north of London by train.
I had an excellent day there seeing all my favourite characters and film sets.
If you like Harry Potter you should definitely go and visit it.
I bought a few souvenirs.
for my family because they are also Harry Potter fans.
On my return to London I chose to quickly have a snack in a KFC restaurant and went back to the hotel.
The following morning I checked out with the hotel at 4am as I had to go by underground to Liverpool Street Station.
I got the train to Stancere Airport and
checked in for my return flight home when I arrived.
I slept most of the time on the flight.
My four days in London had been an interesting and very enjoyable experience and I had made a lot of memories and had taken hundreds of photos.
If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.
Thank you very much.
flight was due to land at London's Stunsted Airport at 3pm and my return flight was four days later at 11am.
My next task was to decide where to stay in London.
The options were a hotel or a hostel in either central London or in the suburbs.
Central hotels and hostels were more expensive.
but involved less transport costs while suburban accommodation was slightly cheaper but involved travelling a long distance and higher transport costs.
As I was travelling on a budget, I opted for a premier in budget hotel just out of the room for it.
It was reasonably priced and I...
could either walk or catch the bus or the underground into central London.
London's Stas said, therefore, is 42 miles from the centre of London.
So I decided to catch special train that runs every 30 minutes and takes 50 minutes to get to Liverpool Street Station.
From there, I could catch the underground to my hotel.
About four hours.
arrival at the hotel I was welcomed by the reception staff and directed to my room which was on the fourth floor.
It had everything I needed, a comfortable bed, a desk, chair and a bathroom with a shower.
I was very tired at the end of my first day so I ate at the hotel restaurant and went to bed early.
I was looking forward to the next day when I
be exploring London.
The following morning I had breakfast in the hotel and set off on foot and made my way to Harrod's department store.
I spent all morning there looking at all the different products.
I couldn't believe that everything was so expensive.
I didn't buy anything but just having a look around the store was very enjoyable.
After eating a sandwich for lunch in Hyde Park, I walked to Buckingham Palace to see the King's residence and the guards.
From there I went to the houses of Parliament and I saw Big Den.
After walking over Westminster Bridge I was able to take a trip of London Eye, from which I could see most of London.
I then caught the underground to the station near my house.
hotel.
I ate in a pizza restaurant in that area which was nice but also very expensive because of the area and then watched English TV in my hotel room.
I slept very well that night because I had done so much the day before.
I woke up early and after breakfast I took the underground to Trafalgar Square.
I paid to go
I saw the sights of London, left to square, the shops in Oxford Street, St Paul's Cathedral, the Tower of London and Tower Bridge.
In the evening I went to see the Lion King at the theatre.
It was amazing and I recommend going to see it.
It was late when I...
When I was a child I always used to go to the park to play.
When I was a toddler which means a child who is between the eighties of one and three.
I used to play in the sandbox.
I would make sandcastles and play with the sand with a bucket and spade.
When I got older I started.
playing on the slides and the swings.
I was scared of the seasaw because my brother went on the seasaw with me and went up and down very quickly, so I got scared.
I never liked going on the monkey bars because they were too high.
I wasn't tall enough for them.
My
it in lovely to watch the children playing and doing the things that we used to do at the park.
We still enjoy walking around the park, feeding the ducks and geese and having a picnic on the bench or on a nice day.
On a nice summer day in England, parks are usually full of people.
making the most of the good weather.
There are sometimes even concerts or fun activities to do at the park in the summer.
These activities could be for children like bouncy castles and face painting, but there are also events for adults too like live music.
There's nothing like this.
at a park on a sunny day, listening to the live music while having a picnic on a blanket.
Nowadays we usually take our dogs for a walk around the park.
They love to run around and to chase the dogs.
We look at the beautiful statues, fountains and trees.
flowers which are things you don't really look at when you are younger at the park.
Sometimes it's fun to go on a boat ride as well.
Some parts have natural or artificial lakes where you can go on a little boat and have fun.
They normally cost about
£10 or £15 for 30 minutes.
If you have visited London, you will probably have seen these little boats in Hyde Park.
If it's a nice day, it's sunny and it's warm, it's a fun activity to do at Hyde Park.
You can go on one with your family or your friends.
see how fast you can row and to look at the ducks, the geese or even the swans close up.
How often do you go to parts and what do you normally do there?
Please leave a comment in the comment section.
If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.
Thank you very much and...
always used to go on them though and he knew how to swing on the monkey bars and he definitely looked like a monkey.
My favourite thing to do at the park was to go on the merry-go-round.
My brother didn't used to go on it with me because he didn't like it.
He used to get very dizzy on it.
Sometimes we would take our bikes or scooters to the park to ride around it.
We always wore our helmets just in case we fell off our bikes or scooters.
When we finished playing we would go and sit on the picnic bench to have some lunch.
We always brought our lunch box.
with us.
We normally had some juice, a sandwich and an apple.
Our friends always used to come to have lunch with us too.
I remember they used to bring crisps or chocolate bars and they would often share them with us.
Of course we would offer them a bit of our sandwich in return.
While we were having our lunch, the ducks and the geese used to come and ask for food.
We used to feed them oats because people say that bread is not healthy for them.
The ducks and the geese used to live in a pond at the park.
There were some big goldfish in the pond too.
but we didn't feed them.
When I was older I learned to skateboard and roll a skate at the park.
There was a skate park so I used to meet up with my friends to skate with them.
We learned to do many tricks and we fell off quite a lot of tricks.
There was also a track around...
the park.
So that was great to learn how to roll a blade.
Roller skating or roller bleeding is quite difficult at the start.
It's even difficult just to know how to stand up without falling over.
It was very fun to learn to roll a blade with my friends because we caught each other when we fell.
In about three...
months we all learned to roll a blade and that was great because we could all learn new tricks at the same time.
We used to go on the climbing wall as well which was quite big.
It was hard to climb to the top but we managed to do it in the end.
There was also a zip wire at the park.
but you have to pay to go on it.
When you are a teenager, you don't usually have a lot of money to spend.
So, we didn't go on it often.
Like I said, we spend most of our time roller skating or skating and just hanging out in the park.
Now that we are adults.
Yesterday, my mum woke up early at half past seven.
She had set her alarm clock the night for, and she got out of bed quickly.
She looked out of the window and saw that it was raining.
She rushed down the stairs and started to prepare her breakfast.
She read the newspaper while the water for her tea boiled.
She ate her breakfast and drank her cup of tea.
After breakfast my mum decided that she should have a shower so she went to the bathroom and showered quickly.
At about 9 o'clock she got dressed and fetched her coat from the cupboard.
She drove the car to the shopping centre and parked in her car.
favourite parking space.
She walked to the supermarket and collected a trolley.
As she got near the supermarket, she met a friend and they talked for a few minutes.
When she entered the supermarket, my mum remembered that she needed to buy a present for her cousin.
She pushed the trolley to the gift.
and searched for a special present.
In the end she chose a beautiful box of crystals, as she knew that her cousin was very spiritual and that she loved gemstones and mystic things.
She collected her other groceries and proceeded to the checkout.
She queued
in line and wasted for her turn.
She chatted to the shop assistant and paid for her shopping.
When she arrived home, my mom found some pretty paper and wrapped the present.
She wrote a birthday card and put the two items on the table.
It was now lunchtime, so she opened
fridge and got the ingredients for her lunch.
She made herself a big sandwich and ate it at the table.
In the afternoon, my mum cleaned the house and washed the clothes in the washing machine.
She hung the clothes on the washing line and watched as they blew in the wind.
It had stopped raining when she was in the shopping centre.
and now the sun shone and it was quite a nice day.
She put the radio on and listened to her favorite program.
The DJ played her favorite type of music and she sang along to most of the songs that she heard.
Mon Cook dinner and ate it in the kitchen.
She always ate all her food in the kitchen as she caught up with message.
on her phone.
In the evening she watched TV and knitted a teddy bear.
She loved knitting while she watched TV, she felt relaxed and happy.
At 10 o'clock she got on dress and washed her face, she brushed her teeth and got into bed.
She got under the covers and snuggle down to sleep.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be describing some photographs and talking about them and this might help you for your speaking exam.
So what can you see in this first photo?
I can see a young couple relaxing with a drink, maybe a coffee or tea.
Yeah, we can see that they've got two...
monks in their hands and there is a teapot on the table.
Oh yes, I didn't see the teapot at first.
Maybe they're at a cafe that has a garden.
Yeah, they could be at a cafe having a coffee outside or they might be at the end of their garden.
Yes, it could be their fence at the end of the garden.
Do you think that they are with other people?
Because they aren't looking at each other.
So maybe they're...
they're looking at the friends.
Yeah, I think they're having a conversation and laughing with their friends or family and it looks like they're very comfortable so they're laying back, aren't they?
So it looks like they're with people that they know and not with strangers.
We can also see a dog as well.
That means that they brought their dog along to an informal event.
Yes, their clothes are informal too.
What season do you think it is?
I think it's autumn because the girl is wearing a scarf, a warm scarf and they are both wearing long trousers and jackets.
What do you think?
Yeah, it looks like it's autumn because the colour of the scarf is popular in autumn well and they're both wearing boots.
definitely not the summer.
Yes, it could be spring too, maybe the weather is cooler than summer but not cold like winter because their jackets are unzipped as well so they haven't got their zipped on up so it's definitely not very very cold.
Right, now we're going to go to the next photo.
What can you see in this photo?
I can see your group...
of young adults, maybe they're students at university because they have paper and pens on the table.
I think they're working in a group, maybe they have a project to work on together, but it's very informal.
Yeah, I don't think they're at work because you would have really sit on the table at work with you.
No, I think it's quite an informal setting and even the
you can't see their faces, all of the people appear to be of similar age because of the style of their clothes and in a workplace you have people of all different ages.
Yeah, that's generally true.
The clothes that they're wearing are long sleeve t-shirts and jeans and you wouldn't really wear that to work, would you?
I think now it depends where...
work because some workplaces have informal days, for example a Friday, some workplaces have a dress down Friday when you can wear comfortable clothes.
Yeah so it could be at work, we don't really know.
So on the table we can see a few objects.
What can you see on the table?
I can see a pencil case, some paper, a pen, a mobile phone and what has the girl got in there?
hand?
Is it some pens?
Yes, the girl at the front has got a pen in her hand, but I think that the girl at the back has got a phone in her hand.
And something that I hadn't seen before was that they've even got their shoes on the table.
They've got their feet on the table.
So that is something you definitely wouldn't do at work.
No, you wouldn't do that at work in any situation.
I don't think.
So in today's video, we've decided to...
In today's video we're going to continue with the video series about idioms and expressions that we use in English quite frequently.
In this video we're going to focus on good and bad manners.
So these expressions are either very good to use to be polite or very bad.
I'm going to go with the polite one first.
The first one is be my guess.
We use this expression when someone has asked to do something and your response is be my guess.
If you watch films in English you will have probably seen this quite a lot because one of the characters might ask if they could do something and the other one would respond be my guess.
answer someone really badly to respond to them badly.
For example I went to a restaurant yesterday and there was a family there.
The dad told the teenagers to stop shouting but they answered back so it means that they responded to him badly.
We normally use it to talk about children or teenagers.
Another one that we have is to button.
Button means to interrupt the conversation.
There are some people who never let you finish a sentence and keep interrupting you.
You can say that they've bought in all the time.
You can also use this to ask permission to interrupt.
Like if some people...
having a conversation and you say sorry to put in but or can I just put in here?
It means can I just interrupt or I'm sorry to interrupt?
It's quite informal so I wouldn't really use it at work or in other formal situations.
The last one we have is
close to home or close to the bloke.
We use these expressions when we're talking about when someone makes a comment which offend somebody else.
So it's not really acceptable, it's a bit too offensive.
So if you make a joke about something that somebody is really...
fond of like their friends, their family or their pets even and it's something too personal to joke about.
You can say the comment that you made was a bit close to home or the comment you made was a bit close to the bone.
It means that the joke went too far.
Let me know what you think about these expressions and
of you have heard them before.
I think that I see quite a few of these in films because a lot of these you would use at a party or with your friends.
Let me know which your favourite one was and why don't you write an example with it so that I can correct you.
Please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.
For example, if you invite someone to your house and you have a piano and they ask, can I play the piano?
You can answer, be my guest.
The next expression we have is to do the honors.
This is a typical expression that people use when they're serving up food at the dinner table.
It normally happens when the host of the party or of the dinner is busy or isn't there and someone offers to do the honours which means shall I serve food.
You normally answer yes to this question.
You don't normally say no.
The next ones are quite easy.
They are do you mind or...
would you mind?
You're asking for permission to do something and you're asking if it bothers the other person.
For example if you're somewhere and you ask do you mind if I wait outside?
The other person can reply no not at all.
If you're hosting a party or there are people around your house you can say feel free to you're asking for permission to do something and you're asking for permission to do
It means you're allowed to do this and make yourself at home.
For example, you could say, feel free to take some drinks from the fridge or feel free to use the bathroom if you need to.
And when we're talking about food, we usually say, help yourself or serve yourself.
When my friends are at my house, I say, oh.
Please help yourself or you can help yourself to the drinks in the fridge.
If somebody does something nice for you, you can say how nice or how sweet.
I appreciate that or that means a lot to me.
For example, if it's your birthday and somebody has bought you a present and given you...
you a card you can say I appreciate that or how sweet.
But if you don't want to accept what somebody is offering you and you want to reject it very nicely there are some expressions that you can use.
I'd rather not if you don't mind so if you're at this party and they offer you alcohol and
don't fancy it, you can say, I'd rather not if you don't mind.
Or, I don't mind if I do.
Or that's very kind of you.
That's very kind of you can be used to receive and accept something or to reject it very nicely.
Now, if you want to apologize, you can say, sorry, excuse me.
or I hate to bother you.
We normally use I hate to bother you but when we are interrupting something or someone's conversation so imagine if two of your friends are talking and you need to talk to one of them you might say I hate to bother you but I'm going to leave now.
To answer back needs to...
In today's video we're going to talk about rain.
You probably know that it rains a lot in England and I wanted to tell you the exact amount of days that it rained last year.
In 2023 it rained 170 days of the year and sometimes it rains all day and doesn't stop.
Because it's such an important.
part of our lives, whether we like it or not, I thought that today we could talk about this topic.
I'm going to be answering some questions and then at the end we're going to see some idioms related to rain.
The first question is, do you like rain?
Well, I like rain if I don't have any plans.
So if I just have to go to work...
if I had to go outside three times a day to take the dog for a walk.
My cat just looks out the window and when it's raining she doesn't ask to go outside so I'm looking in that sense.
And the last question says, can you remember a time when it wouldn't stop raining and you just wished it would.
And yes!
I can remember many times when I have been in that situation.
I think that this normally happens when you go somewhere by foot, so you go somewhere walking without the car because it said on a weather forecast that it wasn't going to rain and suddenly it starts raining really hard and you know that it's not going to stop.
It doesn't look like it's going to rain.
going to stop and you're going to have to walk back all that way in the ring.
I remember the last summer it felt like it rained every single weekend.
During the week the weather got better on a few days but when I was on holiday I was thinking about all these poor people who are in England and...
haven't gone abroad for summer.
They are probably working all week, looking forward to the weekend, and when the weekend came around, it was raining all day.
I often think about this when I see shops selling garden furniture because they sell a lot of sofas, chairs, tables, and all of this
beautiful decoration for outdoors.
But if you think about it, there are probably only maybe five days last summer that you could have sat outside and actually not feel cold.
So it's quite sad when you think about it compared to other countries.
Does this happen in your country?
I would like to know your opinion on this because...
When I go to other countries like Spain, Italy or France, I think that they are so lucky to have all of this good weather.
People actually use their garden furniture unlike in England.
Now we're going to be seeing some idioms which are related to rain.
Rain or shine means water for the weather it's like.
So, for example...
or if you say we're going to go on holiday next week come rain or shine it means that you're going to go regardless of the weather.
To keep something for a rainy day means to keep something for the future when you might need it.
Rain on somebody's parade means.
to prevent someone from enjoying an event or their plans.
You see this quite often online where it says don't rain on my parade, so you're basically telling somewhere not to ruin an event or something for you.
It's raining cats and dogs means to be raining heavily.
If I...
say, is raining cats and dogs outside?
I'm not going to go out.
It means that it's raining a lot.
Take a rain check means to postpone something to another time.
So for example, if I say, thank you for inviting me, but I'm going to take a rain check.
It means that you're okay.
then I don't mind the rain and I know that it is necessary.
But when I do dislike the rain is when you have a plan, especially in spring or summer, especially summer.
When you don't expect it to rain and it does and it just ruins all of your plans.
Last summer in 2023, the
weather was horrible and it rains so much and I felt so bad for all of the people who worked in sectors directly affected by the rain.
For example I visited different seaside towns and it was a shame because all of the shops were empty because it just kept raining and nobody was visiting.
I also think it's a pity when there is a big music festival or other types of outdoor events in the summer where people go just to have a good time and it is cancelled or doesn't go as planned due to their rain.
The next question is, what is your favourite type of rain?
I say that
my favourite type of rain are showers which is just normal rain.
I really hate it when it is heavy rain and I have to drive because it can become quite dangerous because you can hardly see out the windscreen and I dislike drizzle which is the rain that isn't even rain is just
water in the air because you think it isn't raining and then 10 minutes later you're soaked which means that you're very wet.
The next question is a bit strange it says what do you like to do in the rain?
I always try to avoid the rain and when I'm out in it I'm racing to the car or running home.
I hate it when you go shopping and then it suddenly starts to rain and won't stop, especially when you have paper bags.
In England they charge you for plastic bags and they've even started to charge you for paper bags, but these new paper bags are terrible for the wet weather because they disintegrate when it rains.
The next question.
is what part do you like about rain?
Well I love the fact that rain can bring rainbows.
I haven't seen many recently.
I think I've only seen about two in the last year.
I don't know why there haven't been that many.
Probably because we haven't had a lot of sun.
I also like to have a rainy day at home on a Sunday in the autumn or in the evening.
the winter when I don't have any plans.
I think it can be quite cozy to look out the window and see that it's chucking it down, which means that it's raining very hard and you're just sat there cuddled up with a blanket watching an old film.
I suppose that I'm lucky because I don't have a dog so I don't have to take it for a walk.
It would be more of a problem.
Okay, everyone.
I'm extremely excited for today's episode.
This is the first time, I believe.
Yeah, it's the first time that I've actually had a guest on the show.
Some of you might already know our guest.
Maybe you've already listened to her, her podcast or her other content.
But I'm here with Lindsay today from all years English.
And Lindsay McMahon is the co-host of all years English.
The All-Ears English Podcast has 1.3 million followers on Apple Podcasts and Spotify globally.
It's downloaded 4.5 million times per month and was ranked in the best of Apple Podcasts categories in 2018 and 2019 as well as number one in US education language courses.
Lindsay and her team have been featured in Podcast Magazine, Language Magazine and Forbes.
Lindsay, well...
will do, especially at the lower intermediate or beginner level, they'll feel themselves make a mistake.
They'll drop eye contact immediately.
They'll clam up.
You can see the stress in the shoulders.
They will actually back away from the human being in front of them.
But what our philosophy says is never do that.
Never allow a mistake to sever a connection opportunity.
So when we make a mistake, we actually maintain that eye contact.
We stay in the conversation.
We don't back away.
And it's important.
I want your listeners to
know this because it's especially important at this level to begin to low intermediate level because if we start to get into a pattern where our mistakes start to rule us or start to dictate how we act around other people.
Native speakers are non-native speakers.
We're set on the wrong track.
So I want your listeners to kind of make sure that connection is the ultimate goal is not being correct.
That's a great point.
I really like that.
And it really is something that we can get caught up with if we think that it's
perfection, it's about not making a something mistake.
We think that everyone's eyes are on us and as soon as we say something unnatural or wrong, people just judge us.
That's not reality, right?
The person that you're talking to wants that connection with you.
So you should strive to have that connection with them.
Just be understood and actually allow that connection to kind of motivate you to speak and to actually do so more effectively.
So that's a really great philosophy.
Thank you for sharing that.
Yes.
So with that being said, what are the ways that that loss we can kind of be put into action of those steps?
Yeah.
For sure.
So one of the interesting mistakes that I see people making even at the low intermediate to high beginner level is there's too much of a laser focus on the mechanics of the language.
Yes, we need grammar at the beginner to intermediate level, but we're missing culture.
So what students tend to do is that they don't learn.
culture in parallel with the mechanics of the language.
Okay?
So what ends up happening is we get to a point in arbitrary point where we feel like, okay, now we can learn culture.
We can go back and implement culture.
And now it's kind of too late.
You need to learn them in parallel.
Number one, so it stays interesting and enjoyable.
So we have material we can actually relate to people with, right?
We could start those conversations.
And so we built the course of all our English.
many years ago, I took a road trip actually around the US, went to your home state of California, onto the wild west, Wyoming, Texas, New York City, it went everywhere.
Interviewed native speakers of all different lifestyles and philosophies.
And we brought in those interviews in.
So we started with a base of cultural conversations, talking about things like food and drink trends, but so lighter things, but also history, history of the US heavy issues, homelessness, the culture of...
California, the traffic in California, the surf culture.
These are things that are going to keep us motivated, but also We're not learning this early on.
What is the actual material from which we're going to start conversations when we do have the right Construction, we're not going to have Exactly.
Yeah, it's there to talk about what is there to connect with with other people if you have no connection to their world their reality if you just have Yeah complete textbook
of the language, right?
Yeah.
That's what you're trying to avoid.
And actually get that real world material, and which is really motivating.
It's really exciting and interesting to learn about that stuff.
And also, in addition, gives you that common ground where you can talk about real things that matter with that person.
Exactly.
Exactly.
It all looks like we really believe that, again, it comes back to the human connection.
It's not about learning some kind of a formula.
Right.
We're not doing math problems here.
We are actually learning to use it to eventually do something more important than just saying the worst So I think it's really important for listeners at every level to keep that in mind Yeah, that's a great point.
I always say this I think I've said a multiple times on this podcast that learning a language is not like learning Matt it's not that same process.
It's not the same goal.
It's not there isn't the same Let's say underline mode of learning
Like you're mentioning this is about Actually communicating with people.
Yeah, actually having experiences with other people So that's awesome.
Yeah, I really like that.
Let me just throw out a quick example So an interesting cultural conversation for example could be that you and I can have right now Is the difference between New York City and Los Angeles?
Are you an LA person or are you a New York person?
I'm an under-york person you might be an LA person.
I don't know exactly But this is a rich conversation
Welcome.
Thank you for being here with us today.
Thank you, Connor.
I am excited to be here and I'm honored to be your first guest ever on your show.
Thank you so much.
I'm excited for this.
I'm not a typical podcast post, so this is kind of my first time posting something like this.
I don't do too badly, but I know that you're someone that has a lot to offer to my audience.
Everyone listen to my audio.
And there's absolutely no reason why at a lower level your losers can't have this conversation to you You could have pieces and start to build the building blocks for this conversation There's no point at which you then have that permission to go and talk about interesting things we can start now Okay, yeah, that's something that native speakers would talk about and let's each other and that's something that people at a lower level or lower And me at level can also talk about yes, yes, yeah, yeah, it'll actually kind of help them improve
You got it.
And then just following back on the philosophy of course at the beginner level to low intermediate your conversation is going to be different from what it would look like at the B2 to C1 level.
And that's totally fine.
That's how we fall back to connection, not perfection.
Maybe I know a few words about, you know, urban, I know words like urban, city, skate, maybe I know a few basic words.
I use what I can and then I find the human connection in that conversation.
And then a few years later I'm having a more vibrant conversation.
But there's no reason why we can have access to these topics at the lower level.
I agree 100%.
Thank you very much for that tip.
So what else?
What else do you have for us?
All right, so I think in order to get them right to get from that B1 level into B2, into C1, get into advance, we need, it comes down to habits, because anything that I've ever accomplished in my life is about repetition.
That means we need listening.
So exposing yourself to a very small dose of interesting listening material.
on a daily or near daily basis is really key.
So I think people think, why can't I have that conversation?
Well, listening is an important piece.
So if you're only working within a textbook or if you're only practicing when it comes to actually speaking, you're missing that foundation.
So find something you love, find a podcast, find a YouTube channel, 10 to 15 minutes a day, make it regular, don't try to understand everything.
We've had listeners of our show come back and say, oh, I found you, yo, in 20.
17 and I could understand 50 percent, but I thought it was fun So I stuck with it and now I understand 75 percent that is a huge win And you can see that increase and that's gonna give you that endowed progress effect Which is a psychological mechanism where we know the brain gets excited and motivated to continue when we see a little improvement So make sure what you're listening is interesting listening to is actually interesting and you're seeing that gradual improvement But expose yourself to the language on a daily basis
Well, I just have to say to my listeners, I didn't prep Lindsay before she said all this, people that are listening, are going to say she sounds like what Conor owns.
So, we're not conspiring together.
But we didn't do that before this talk, that's her own advice.
And that's what I always tell my listeners here, I really stress.
Of course, just the amount of listening that you do and doing it frequently.
you mentioned.
Hopefully every day if you can't, I know it seems like a hard thing every day.
That's a lot.
Well, not really.
If you think of the other things we do every single day, even just cry 10 minutes.
You see that there are a lot of things that we do every single day.
And turning on your favorite podcast or whatever it is in English is not that hard to do every day.
At least for 10 minutes, 15 minutes like you mentioned.
And like you said, if you using gauging.
content that you use and you can trust in content, it goes beyond just, I got to do my English today.
It's, ooh, I wonder what Lindsay has to say on this episode.
You're actually kind of, you care about the content and that focus is your mind on actually maybe understanding more than you would if it were more content.
I'm just doing English just to do it.
I think it's important to find something that feels a bit like, edutainment.
Right.
So, it's not education 100% because we don't want it to feel like we're back in school.
learners here right we're not sitting in a classroom as you know as kids but we all it's also a little more than just pure energy where we're laughing we can actually find a combination of the two and we call it editing it's out there okay yeah I love that cool that's what I'm yeah refer to now when I'm talking about that combination of doing something fun and doing something that's educational for you editing I love that cool and you have one of the
for us.
Yeah, for sure.
The next tip is so we talked about the importance of, you know, regular, regular listening habit.
And we have talked about involving yourself in cultural conversations.
Have access immediately.
There's no permission slip where you say, okay, now you can go into interesting things with your English.
You don't have to just learn constructions.
Now I want to say get a foothold early when it comes to speaking.
I think there's another unwritten rule that a lot of students think they have to wait before actually beginning.
listening is an English learner.
And I would say, I would guess the majority of the people listening are probably at an upper beginner that might be the lowest end to lower intermediate level.
I'm guessing that's probably the majority of my audience here.
And I think that you have brought a very interesting topic to the show today.
I think you want to talk about helping lower inter...
Speaking for some reason they feel like they have to get past a certain point I would push back on that and say start speaking early I like to practice my Spanish with my tutor on eye-talkie I'm getting ready for a trip to Panama in a couple of weeks and I just hired a tutor to jump on With once a week for half an hour very simple Find a way to do it how we cut down tons of episodes on ways you can actually start speaking There's a lot of things you can do you can even Get on the phone with customers
service for whatever product, whatever you have to do, you can find a way to start speaking.
But one key here that I want to make sure your listeners know is don't pretend to understand.
I think a lot of times we feel like we have to pretend to understand this gets us into trouble later.
Right.
So make sure you make sure you feel like you're in a safe space.
You're speaking with someone where you can push back a bit and use the key phrases.
Turn, have the tools in your back.
pocket, saying something like, sorry, I didn't quite catch that.
Or what was that?
Could you say that one more time?
Again, we've done so many episodes on what to ask.
Have some tools, push back, and put yourself into situations where you will feel comfortable asking for that repetition.
We're not talking about three hours of practice a day.
We're talking again, five to ten minutes, just the words.
Yes, that's great advice.
My listeners kind of think of me as the listening guy.
Of course, my...
podcast is called Listening Time, I Stress, Listening, Listening, Listening is kind of the main thing I shut down people's throats kind of.
However, like you said, you are never going to be a good speaker if you don't speak obviously.
And so I want to make that clear.
Even though I'm a huge proponent of listening input, getting that engaging content, and that's kind of the skeleton, the base of your knowledge in the language, you got to actually...
right?
You do have to get that practice in and it's gonna really motivate you to maybe do more than what you would have done, do more English, do more listening, go further, spend more time with the language because when you do actual speaking practice you get that connection that you've been talking about.
It's not just you consuming something, just content.
You're actually getting to connect with the person.
really cool.
That's one of the most rewarding parts of learning a language.
So, for example, I've done a lot of French listening practice and this year I'm actually going to stop just kind of listening kind of in the background or listening when I have some free time and just doing that.
I've realized that I haven't really spoken.
There's a problem with that because there's only so much I can...
do or there's only elder.
I can't reach a really high level if I don't just start speaking.
So my goal for the rest of this year is to actually just get my feet wet and actually start speaking.
I love that.
I like that advice.
That's so good.
I think as adults, and I love that example of French learning, as adult learners, we need quick wins.
We need quick wins.
And I think part of that win is not just listening, it's speaking.
I also think it's smart for your listeners at the low intermediate level to start speaking.
So we don't develop
up toxic habits.
I notice a lot of my friends who are native speakers of English, they learn Spanish in school, but they're afraid to speak it.
They feel awkward, they feel embarrassed, and somewhere they develop that habit, and it probably came from not speaking much.
So I think that the way to get around that is from a low level.
You're already right in there.
You're getting in there.
You're speaking, you're becoming intimate with the language in that speaking way.
So you don't develop that embarrassment.
that awkwardness where you're sprayed to even let other speakers of your language here's this other language.
Don't let it get to that point and the way to do it is speak or yes that's that's so true we develop these kind of nervous habits this embarrassing this almost shame sometimes that people have like someone hear me say what I was listening we don't want to have that.
Yeah it's interesting and I think when kids learn
language like bilingual kids when they learn as could they don't go through that as much if they because they haven't developed self-consciousness yet.
So as adults we know we might be susceptible.
What are the things we can do to override that tendency of human mind?
Yeah.
Right.
Perfect.
Wow.
What a great tip.
So those are really kind of clear actionable things that people can do and remember we're talking about people mostly in the lower intermediate.
intermediate English learners reach a higher intermediate level, is that right?
Yeah, exactly.
I love to talk today about how your listeners and students of English in general can move from that low intermediate, intermediate, intermediate to higher intermediate.
So we're talking today about going from maybe A to B1 into B2, right?
Up to that point where we can really start to start to connect and have real conversation that we feel good about.
Yeah.
range here and I don't think many people would say oh if you're in the lower intermediate range you it's still way too early for you to talk and connect with people and to have this human connection you got to spend some more time with the books.
I don't think that really anyone would have that philosophy especially if you're at the lower intermediate level, dive in and actually enjoy that human connection that you can establish with other people in that language use that to feed you.
motivation, use that to keep you going and you'll reach that upper, upper, intermediate level.
Would you agree with that?
A person at Gunner.
That's it.
I mean, that is our whole idea here.
Next, is available to every human being on this planet.
It is our birthright, right?
As human beings, we have the right to connect with other human beings.
And so, of course, like I said, it's going to look different at the intermediate beginner level than it will at the advanced level, but that's okay because that's where we're at.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Cool.
Well, this has been great and before we go I do want to give you the chance to tell our listeners where they can find you, where they can listen to you.
Tell us.
Tell us about all your things.
All right.
So you basically heard our philosophy again, which I said is connection, not perfection.
Every episode comes back to how can we find those moments of human connection.
We have a lot of vocabulary, idioms, expressions, grammar.
We have a business English podcast as well, but the best place to...
get started would just be by opening the search bar wherever your listeners are listening, whether it's Apple Podcasts or Spotify, open the search bar, type in all ears English and you're going to see a lot of yellow, yellow brand new coming up and just hit follow on the all ears English podcast that will get you started with us.
Again we bring all of our episodes back to the connection moment.
Good stuff.
Yeah.
Listen, let's go do that after you're done with this episode and I'm sure you'll benefit from all of it.
When I think about E2 or when I think about just kind of the general upper intermediate level of any language as a language learner, I think of that level as the point when I can start to feel kind of comfortable in the language in the sense that I can operate in the language.
I can maybe even live in that country and be okay.
And obviously I'm going to have plenty of errors.
still but I'm gonna actually be fairly comfortable in the language.
I'm gonna have a level where people look at me and say, oh yeah, he's got a pretty good level of Spanish or pretty good level of Portuguese or whatever.
How would you classify kind of an upper intermediate level?
Yeah, I agree.
And we just did another appearance over on all there's English where you joined me Connor.
We talked about that level, that B2 level moving into that advanced C1 level.
Oh yeah, I...
think it is basically you described it well.
It's when you essentially can do pretty much anything.
You can pull off any task, you can have a conversation with pretty much anyone at the B2 level.
The question is are you starting to repeat words over and over?
Is your vocabulary actually quite limited?
Even though you can accomplish tasks, you're still missing a lot, missing jokes, missing nuances, but today we want to get to that point where we want to, you know, every, you know, every language learning journey has steps that we have.
to take it one step at a time, which is fine.
Right.
Well, that's a perfect description.
And I'm excited to hear your tips.
I believe you've got a few tips for us.
Actionable steps that people can take to actually kind of help them get to that level.
So if you could, could you share with us some tips, some things that people can incorporate into their language learning?
Yeah.
So first I'm going to start Conor with the philosophy.
Because it's all about a mindset.
And over on.
my podcast, all ears English, our philosophy, our, it's a trademark as well, but more importantly, it's our mindset is connection, not perfection.
And the reason that we believe in connection, not perfection is it matters for every level.
It's not just for upper intermediate or advanced speakers.
It works for beginners.
What it means is that you never sacrifice human connection when you hear yourself make a mistake, but we don't want to do is plan up.
A lot of times, what's to do?
Hello, how was your day today?
I've had a lovely day, it's been nice and sunny and I went for a very long walk in the countryside.
What's something interesting you've been working on lately?
Well, I love to crochet and this past week I've been making a pair of socks for a young girl.
So what is your favourite hobby or pastime?
I love knitting crochet, so...
anything creative really although I'm not good at painting or drawing.
Have you read any good books or seen any good movies recently?
I read a good book a few months ago but I don't often read I prefer to be creative.
Do you have any upcoming plans or events that you're looking forward to?
Yes I'm going on holiday soon to British seaside town.
It will be totally
years ago I went to a big car event and I was able to be a passenger in a rally car and that was something really out of character for me but I loved it but I don't think I would ever do it again but it was great at the time it was fantastic.
How do you like to relax and through a long day?
I like to put on an old favourite TV.
I've got a small collection of DVDs and I tend to watch the same ones over and over again.
That's the best way to relax for me.
Apart from Tunisia, have you ever travelled to another country?
Yes, I've been to Spain and France.
I can't think of any other country I've been to.
But I think Tunisia was the furthest distance I've travelled and the culture.
which was so different to European ways.
I'm not sure I would go there again though, whereas France and Spain are more enjoyable for me.
I would go there again.
Are you a morning person or a night owl?
I think now I'm a morning person.
When I was younger, I would definitely a night owl and stay out partying.
But as I've got old...
I'm now a morning person, I would easily get up at 6am most days.
But it means that I do often have a nap in the afternoon.
But that's good, that's fine, nap is not a problem for me.
What's something you've always wanted to do, but haven't had the chance to do it?
I can't think of anything.
I've traveled as much as I want to at the moment.
There's nothing I really need.
I suppose if there was one thing then I would like to go to Canada to see all the tall trees and it's very beautiful there but I wouldn't fancy the very long flight.
So if there was a magical way to get there without actually having to do the long journey then that would be something I would like to do but all the travel
to get there is not something that I would enjoy doing.
And finally, if you could help dinner with any person, either from the present or from the past, who would it be and why?
Well, that's very easy.
I would love to have dinner with George Clooney.
And well, because I think, because I just find him very attractive and I think that it would be really nice to be set up as a him.
from my normal day to day life.
How do you like to spend your weekends?
I like to do a bit of everything.
I like to go out for a long walk, the weather's fine.
I like to be creative, to knit or crochet.
I like to do some baking, I often bake cakes.
And also I like to watch television in the evenings.
I feel the FIs done a bit of everything.
thing over the weekend then I'm happy when it comes to going back to work on Monday.
What's the best holiday you ever been?
Well years ago I went to Tunisia with my sisters and it was a fantastic holiday.
It was the first time I'd been abroad and it was just so different to my normal life.
Have you tried any new foods or restaurant?
lately?
No, I haven't.
I'm not very adventurous with food.
I normally would get some pushing chips or get the Chinese takeaway, but I'm not keen on trying new foods, really.
Is there a skill or talent that you've always wanted to learn?
Yes, I've always wanted to juggle.
I've tried to learn, I've tried looking at online videos and watching how
other people do it like when we go to activities or at the circus but it's something that I just can't do at the moment.
I'm sure that I'll give it a try in the time though.
How are you following any sports or sporting events at the moment?
I'd love to watch cricket on the television and recently there's been the IPL which is the Indian cricket tournament.
And I've really enjoyed that.
It's great fun to watch.
They have enormous crowds there and it's not like The normal cricket matches in England.
It's very noisy there and Very very exciting to watch Have you ever been to any concerts or live performances?
Yes many years ago I used to love going to concerts But
been to many recently.
I think the last one I went to was an event in Liverpool and it was a free event in an area and there were hundreds of people and it was a great atmosphere.
What's your favourite type of musical genre?
I love most music.
I don't like heavy rock but I love any music from 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s up to today.
Like I say, I don't like heavy rock and I'm not too keen on rap, but any other type of music I enjoy.
I think my favourite music would be pop music from the early 80s, early 1980s.
And 1984 is a particular favourite year of mine for music.
Do you have any pets?
Yes, I've got a dog.
He's a very small dog.
his name is Frankie, he's very quiet, you like short walks and you like relaxing, so he's perfect for me.
What's the most adventurous thing that you've ever done?
I can't think of anything adventurous that I've done.
I don't like roller coasters, I don't like anything exciting really.
Many many years.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be having a conversation with my mum and I'm going to be asking her some would you rather questions?
The first question is would you rather own a dog or a cat?
I think I'd rather own a dog because dogs are more loving and you can...
you can interact with them more.
Have you ever had a dog or a cat?
Yes, I've had both.
There was a big difference between dogs and cats, because cats are very independent where there's dogs relying on you more.
The next question is, would you rather live in a flat or a house?
I'd rather live in a house because there's easy access to a garden or a garden?
have a takeaway.
I would prefer to have a takeaway because you still have a good range of food that you can eat but you can eat it in your comfort of your own home and you can have your own drinks at home and you can watch television while you're eating.
I think it's nice to order a takeaway and have it in your pajamas and you know that nobody's watching you while you're eating.
Yes and
you go to a restaurant and it's very very busy and so in the end it's not a nice experience and you've paid a lot of money for the food and the drinks because drinks are more expensive when you have them out.
Yes and so if you've had a bad experience you've wasted a lot of money in my opinion.
So in this video I've asked my mom some would you rather question me I'm going to be doing a part two and three of you.
I've recently been living in a flat and I've noticed that I feel more cut off from the outside well.
Yeah, I think it's nice to have a garden, isn't it?
Yes, it's nice to have the opportunity to go outside, to sit outside or plant flowers in your garden.
The next question is, would you rather have more money or more time?
I think I would...
prefer to have more money because you can always change your routines to have more time in the day but everybody needs more money to live and for holidays and to buy the things that you really want to have.
I don't really know if it means have more time as it live until you're 120 years old or have more free time.
So if you had to choose between having
more money or living longer, what would you prefer?
I would prefer having more money because you can use that now and you never know what's going to happen in the future.
Yeah, you would be able to use that money now when you're healthy.
Because having a longer life doesn't mean that you're going to have a healthy life.
I think that if the choice was of money for a healthy, long life, thank you.
you would choose the latter but I think that money would be more useful at this present time.
The next question is would you rather go to the cinema or a concert?
I would choose to go to a concert because the atmosphere is very good and at the cinema you don't interact with other people so much but at a concert you're interacting with the singer or group and the people around you.
Yeah, I suppose you can sing along at a concert but you don't really sing along or shout out at the cinema, do you?
No, the cinema is more of a private occasion, whereas at a festival or a concert is very sociable.
The next question is, would you rather travel to the past or travel to the future?
This is quite a general question, really.
because it doesn't say how far into the past or how far into the future.
So let's say about 30 years.
So would you prefer to travel to the past or the future?
If it was about 30 years, as you say, I think it would be interesting to travel to the future.
But if it was to any time in the past or any time in the future, I think it would be interesting to travel to the past and...
Victorian times to see how people live their lives back then.
Wouldn't you like to see what's going to happen to you in the future?
I really want to see my personal life in the future.
I would like to go and visit the future in general.
So to see what inventions there were and how people lived.
But I wouldn't want to visit either my own personal past or my own personal future.
Because if you visited your personal future then I think you'll be very worried all the time and you would try to change things that you know are going to have a bad consequence.
Yes, that's true.
There have been many films made with this idea and it never ends well.
Yeah, I don't think it's a good idea.
The next question is would you rather go out for dinner or?
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be using the causative verb form, also known as have or get something done.
I'm going to be asking my mum some questions using the causative and she's going to be answering them.
The first question is how often do you get your haircut?
I think I
usually get my haircut about once every two months or maybe once every three months.
And what's the most you would pay to get your haircut or styled?
I think about 15 pounds would be the maximum I think.
How much do you think it normally costs in this area to get your haircut?
The cheapest I've seen was
electric and gas, you shouldn't do it yourself.
The next question is, have you ever had your photo taken professionally?
Yes, we had a professional photo prefer at our wedding, but I think that's the only time I've had a photo taken professionally.
Would you like to have your photo taken professionally at the minute, for example?
No, I don't think it's necessary.
Yes, no.
really necessary is it?
The next question and final question is have you ever had your house booked?
Not my house, no.
But one time years ago we had a push chair that we kept in front porch which wasn't locked and there was a big storm one night and the next morning the push chair wasn't there so obviously some
£8 for a trim and then I've seen other salons that advertise for more than £28 for a re-style.
Yeah, I think it depends on what you want done.
The next question is, have you ever got a tattoo done?
No, I haven't.
I'm very scared of needles for injections and...
just any type of needles so it's not something I would consider.
If you had to get tattooed done, what would you choose?
So what picture or design would you choose?
I would choose a small animal like a bee or a small bird and I think I would have it on my shoulder or my ankle but I'm not sure which one is the least painful area to have it.
Yeah, I think they're good areas because if you want to cover them then it's easy to cover that area of skin.
Yes, that's true.
The next question is, have you ever had your purse or your handbag stolen?
I think they years ago I had my purse stolen when I was at a nightclub but that was probably my own.
fault because I wasn't being very careful.
Have you ever had your phone stolen?
Yes, I think I have.
Yes, I remember now I have.
We went to a carnival in Spain and then when I got home I noticed my phone had been taken out of my bag, although we really don't know how someone could have done that.
The next one is, have you ever had a tooth removed?
Yes, I have.
I've had
too deep removed and I remember it well because as I said previously I'm very scared of needles and so I wasn't very brave in the procedure.
Did you faint?
No I didn't faint but I was a bit embarrassing.
The next question is have you ever had your eyes tested?
Yes I've got very poor vision
I often have my eyes tested.
I find it a bit stressful.
I think for a lot of people it's a routine thing to have done but as my vision is very bad I find it quite a stressful situation.
And the next question is, do you get your walls painted or do you paint them yourself?
In our previous house we always painted our walls ourselves.
both inside and outside the house.
Why do you prefer to do it yourself?
Because it's very easy to do and it's a lot cheaper to do it yourself.
Are there any things that you prefer to pay someone to do?
I think that anything that deals with electric or gas, then you need to get a qualified person to come and do it.
search so you know it's safe, but any home decorations or home improvements generally you can do yourself, even plumbing, you can do yourself with a bit of research.
I think that nowadays there's quite a lot of videos of how to paint your house well and DIY tips and tricks.
Yes, there's always find a lot of information on YouTube now, but like I say,
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be using the used to form and I'm going to be asking my mum some questions and she is going to be answering now.
The first question is when you were younger what used to be your favourite film and why?
When I was younger I used to like watching film dirty dancing.
I used to watch it over and over because I love music and I used to dance along with the video.
What used to be your biggest dream when you were a child?
When I was a child I used to dream of being a zookeeper because I loved animals so much.
Were you a zookeeper when you were younger in the end?
No, I was never a zookeeper.
but it's still my dream now.
The next question is what did you use to be scared of when you were younger?
When I was younger I used to be scared of spiders and even when I was an adult I was scared of spiders but now that I'm older I'm not quite so scared of them.
What are you scared of now then?
I think that I'm most...
get of heights, I'm not keen on heights at all.
And is that a problem in your day to day life now?
No, it's not a problem in my day to day life, but sometimes when I go to attractions or tour buildings, then I suddenly remember my fear.
The next question is, what did you use to play with as a child?
As a child, I used to play with teddy bears.
and dolls, mainly.
I used to pretend that I was a teacher and that they were the students.
And did you like to play with board games?
Not normally, no, because my brothers and sisters weren't interested in playing board games.
And what toys did you use to get for Christmas?
I think that I used to mainly get dolls and dolls clothes.
And I remember one Christmas I've got a Dolls Pram.
And did you used to get any other presents at Christmas or only toys?
I can't really remember what I used to get.
I think we used to get a lot of chocolate and sometimes clothes which as a child I didn't used to like getting.
The next question is, where did you used to go on holiday when you were a child?
Well, every year my, me and my family used to go to a butlin's holiday camp.
What is a butlin's holiday camp for the people that don't know?
Butlin's is a large holiday complex where you stay in a shallay and it has all your entertainment there.
You can watch shows, films, go swimming and so all of your entertainment and...
fun is in one place for the whole week.
I think you can also stay in caravans can't you?
You can now but when I was young there was only the shallay pot to stay in.
Did you use to like going there?
Yes I used to love going there because I had a lot of independence and me and my brothers and sisters used to go off individually and
own thing and then we knew where our parents were and we used to go back to them to get some more money or to get food.
And did you ever used to go abroad on Hood A with your family?
No, we never went abroad.
And when you were younger did you use to have a pet?
Yes, I used to have my own rabbit that was called Womble which was a very small white rabbit.
and we also had a family pet that was a dog called Topsy.
Did you use to like having a pet?
Yes, I used to love having my rabbit and looking after it and playing with it.
And the final question is, who used to be your favourite singer when you were a teenager?
Where was a teenager?
I used to love pop music, so I had a lot of...
How often do you go to restaurants?
I go to a restaurant once a week.
What is your favorite restaurant and why?
My favorite restaurant is an Italian restaurant because I like pizzas.
What do you usually order?
I usually order a large pizza with tomato, cheese, pineapple, ham and green peppers.
What is the restaurant experience like in your country?
There are so many different types of restaurants in my country.
There are English, Greek, Chinese, Lebanese, Brazilian, Portuguese, Spanish.
There is so much choice.
Have you ever worked in a restaurant?
I have.
I've worked in different jobs in a restaurant.
What different jobs are there in a restaurant?
There are waiting on jobs where you speak to people and take orders.
There are chefs jobs where you work in the kitchen preparing the food and there are jobs where people wash up in the kitchen.
What did you do?
I've had experience in all types of jobs in the restaurant.
I've worked in the kitchen as a person who washes up.
I've worked as a cook and the chef.
and I've also had experience in waiting long tables.
What was the hardest part of the job?
The hardest part of the job is actually waiting on tables when you are speaking with the public, taking orders and dealing with complaints that they may have.
What was the easiest part of the job?
The easiest part of the job is washing up in the kitchen because you could usually...
work at your own pace and you don't have to deal with the public.
And what was the most enjoyable part of the job?
The best part of working in the restaurant is being the chef and receiving compliments through the manager or sister manager saying how good to feed these.
Did you get a lot of compliments?
Of course I did.
People enjoyed my food.
What food did they enjoy?
Awesome.
In today's video we're going to be talking about sleeping.
I'm going to be answering some questions about sleeping and later on in the video we are going to look at some phrasal verbs and idioms.
What time do you usually go to bed?
I usually go to bed at around 11 o'clock.
I always like to go to bed at the same time every night.
but it is true that if there is a good film on TV then I might stay up a bit longer like until half past eleven or quarter to twelve.
What time do you usually wake up?
I usually wake up at about half past six or quarter to seven in the morning.
During the week I have to wake up a lot earlier because I have to go to work but at
because the birds start singing early because the sun rises at 5 in the clock in the morning.
So I have used my cap so that I didn't notice that the sun is rising.
People also use night caps when they are travelling.
The next question is, do you ever oversleep?
No, I don't ever tend to oversleep because I always...
set an alarm in the morning and I think that I know that I have to get up at that time.
If I set an alarm for the weekend, like on a Saturday or a Sunday, just because I have the intention to get up early but I don't have anything planned, then maybe I might oversee in this case.
I don't actually have an alarm clock because I think that you're my
bathroom does the job.
The phrasal verb to drop off means to fall asleep easily without intending to do so, so for example if you're on the sofa and you fall asleep while watching a film then drop off because you didn't actually want to fall asleep.
And the phrasal verb do is are is very similar, it means to go into a light sleep for a short period of time.
so maybe for like 10 minutes.
I normally crash out when I have been for a run or had a very busy day.
To crash out means do fall asleep very quickly because you are tight.
The next question is do you dream a lot?
Yes, I do dream a lot while I'm sleeping but I can't remember the dreams most of the times.
The only dreams that I can actually remember are nightmares because during the nightmare then you normally wake up, whereas when you have a nice dream then it doesn't necessarily wake you up because it isn't very traumatic.
I was quite interested in finding out what the most frequent nightmares are or adults.
The top ones are warning, being chat.
death, feeling lost and feeling trapped.
I found that quite interesting because these aren't nightmares that I usually have.
There are some other ones like missing an important event or waking up late, which I do sometimes have when I have to wake up early to go to the airport.
Then I hardly sleep and I don't.
keep tossing and turning, which means to move about a lot because I think that I'm going to miss my flight.
I know that a lot of people get this one.
Some other ones are your teeth falling out, natural disasters, feeling unprepared for an exam, being paralyzed or even drowning.
And then the least common ones are going bald, technology malfunction.
and inability to find your car.
I suppose that it's because when some people leave the supermarket, they can't remember where they parked the car.
So maybe that could be one of their fears, but maybe it actually means something else, maybe it symbolizes something.
I'm not really sure.
Before we finish, we have some idiom.
To not sleep a wink means to not pour a sleep.
sleep at all.
A cat nap is a little sleep usually during the day and not at night so if you fall asleep for 15 minutes on the sofa that is a cat nap.
And lastly sleeping like a baby means sleeping very well.
If you have enjoyed this video please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.
Thank you very much and I'll see you in...
weekend I can lie in a bit.
I usually lie into around half past nine but if I have to wake up early because we're going out for the day then I don't mind really.
Do you manage to sleep as much as you need?
Well everyone always says that you have to sleep around eight hours per day.
In theory I do get that much sleep.
But the reality is that I'm a light sleeper.
A light sleeper is someone who wakes up at the slightest noise.
So if I'm asleep and I hear one of my neighbours for example, then I wake up and it's hard for me to get back to sleep again.
I know that other people sleep like a log, which means that they sleep very well and very heavily.
don't realise if there are noises or lights around them.
And I have always wanted to be that sort of person, especially those people who can fall asleep on public transport so easily.
They definitely sleep like a log.
Have you ever suffered from insomnia?
No, I have never suffered from insomnia, but I do know that a lot of people around me.
like my friends or family members have this condition.
It's very hard for them to fall asleep at night and when they do fall asleep then they wake up quite often during the night.
Like I said before, I am a light sleeper but I don't consider that I actually have a problem sleeping.
The next question is...
What keeps you awake at night?
Well, I would say that my pets keep me up at night the most because I have a cat and she mows the whole night when she gets bored.
People have told me that it's because I only have one cat, but if I had two, then she wouldn't meow throughout the night.
But I don't want to risk getting another cat because you can imagine what would happen if both of the cats started to meow or night.
That would be even worse.
Another thing that keeps me up is the hot weather in the summer.
There aren't many days where the weather is too hot to sleep in England, but when I go on holiday to places like Italy, tea shop nearby, I will get a little smoking noise.
or Spain, then I notice the heat quite a lot.
Do you use or have you ever used any special methods that help you get to sleep?
No, I have never ever used any special method to help me fall asleep like sleeping pills or herbal remedies, anything like that.
The only thing I really use is a nightcap.
Nightcaps are objects that you put over your eyes to fall asleep at night, especially when it is bright.
In the UK, in the summer, it gets light very early in the morning, so you might wake up about 4 or 5 o'clock in the morning thinking that it's time to get up, but it isn't.
In today's video we're going to talk about spring.
What's your favourite part about spring?
My favourite part about spring is that it usually means that the nice weather is coming back after having a cold and long winter.
The temperature starts to get warmer, which means you can spend more time outside, like
walks or visiting nature reserves.
Also, the landscapes become more colourful, with the trees growing there leaves and plants in flower.
People usually become a bit happier with all these changes.
After Christmas, which is a great excitement for many people, it seems that the months of January, February and March.
is working.
In spring, there are a higher amount of daylight hours we have, becomes a lot more noticeable, so that lets people's spirits.
Getting up while is light outside and coming back from work when it's not dark is definitely something that impacts people's daily routines.
that they can do more things in the evenings and it makes people feel more motivated in general.
Have you attended any festivals in your area in the spring?
There aren't really any spring festivals in my area.
Festivals, especially music ones, are normally held during the summer
people are off work and the weather is supposed to be better.
What's your favourite outdoor activity to do once the weather gets warmer?
Once the weather gets warmer, I like to spend more time outside in the garden.
I like to get all the flowers ready for spring.
I have to buy some seeds at the garden centre.
then plant them in little pot.
After several weeks they have to move them into larger pot so that they have enough space to grow for when they flower in the late spring or early summer.
I think it's nice to have lovely flowers in the garden as it brightens the area up.
In the past I have
tried growing fruits and vegetables in Megadon, but the only ones that I have had success with are tomatoes and blackberries.
And the last question is do you have any childhood memories associated with springtime?
I don't actually have a lot of memories associated with springtime, but I do have a lot that associated with springtime.
with Easter, which is normally in spring.
For example this year in 2024 we're going to celebrate Easter 10 days after spring starts.
If you want to know more about Easter I have made a video about the topic.
I remember when I was a child we always used to go to the supermarket.
and pick out our Easter eggs.
Easter eggs are basically chocolate eggs and each brand like Kit Kat, Tweaks or Snickers sells their own version so if your favorite chocolate is Kit Kat then you would buy the Kit Kat Easter Egg.
It was always very difficult to choose which one I wanted to buy and
And the good thing is that we bought that one and then our family members also used to buy as one so we would always have two or three in the end.
Now that we are at odds it doesn't seem like such a memorable event but it's like going to a toy shop and someone saying you can buy whatever you want.
It was the same feeling.
are quite miserable.
I think it's because people don't really have anything to look forward to.
The months of November and December are usually cold but you're looking forward to Christmas and the New Year so it's an exciting time but when you don't have anything to look forward to then people become miserable.
How do you spend your weekends during this?
spring season.
I normally go on a nice long walk at the weekends, visit my family, or meet up with my friends.
The weather gets nicer in nearby countries too, so I often go on a short weekend trip to a city in Europe like Dublin, Amsterdam or Paris.
They aren't too far away.
It's nice to...
have a change of scenery once in a while.
What's the first thing that comes to mind when you think of spring?
I always think of flowers and colours when I think of spring.
I also think of allergies as a lot of people have hay fever in the season caused by all of the pollen floating around in the air.
Some people get runny noses.
Red and itchy eyes and keep sneezing when spring comes at all because of their hay fever.
Do you prefer spring or another season?
My favourite season in England is summer because the weather is usually warm and Some days it even gets hot.
I know that generally people don't like the hot weather here because they aren't
used to it, but I enjoy it.
The temperature is normally between 12 and 18 degrees Celsius during the day in spring, but it goes colder at night between 6 and 13 degrees Celsius.
It's usually about 14 or 15 degrees during the day.
So if not really hot, that's why I prefer
Do you go on holiday in the spring?
Yes, Easter is normally in spring, so I go abroad for about a week.
I choose more Mediterranean destinations like Italy, Greece, France or Spain for my Easter holidays because the temperature is pleasant there in this season.
On an example, Also in the autumn central Sweden.
In the summer.
advantages of travelling during Easter week is that many countries all over Europe also have holidays so the prices of hotels and flights are usually more expensive.
That's why I have to plan Easter holiday in advance.
If you book it out last minute it can be very pricey.
How to spring if
impact your daily routine compared to other seasons.
Well, the aspect that affects me the most is the amount of daylight hours.
In the winter I go to work in the dark and by the time I get back home it's already dark again.
I believe that this affects a lot of people mentally because it feels like the only thing that you're doing every day.
What time do you have breakfast?
From Monday to Friday I have breakfast at 7 a.m. And on Saturdays and Sundays I have breakfast at 10 o'clock.
What do you usually have for breakfast?
It depends on...
day.
Sometimes I have cereals and milk.
Other times I have jam on toast and if I have a lot of time like at the weekend I have avocado on toast with some orange juice.
Do you often
and they have lots of different meals every day, but others go to the supermarket and they buy ready meals.
Ready meals are meals that are ready for you to eat.
You put them in the microwave or in the oven for 10 minutes.
and they are ready to eat.
It's not a healthy option, but a lot of people use them and buy them because they don't have a lot of time.
Do you ever make dinner for your family?
No, I don't normally make dinner for my family.
My dad.
is a chef so he is the person who normally cooks when we celebrate Christmas or a birthday so I never make dinner for my family.
What is 11's?
11's is a small meal that people have aunt
about 11 o'clock in the morning.
That's why it's called 11s because it's at 11 o'clock.
For example, if you had breakfast at 7 in the morning and you have lunch at 1 o'clock, you might get hungry at 11 o'clock.
So you might have a cup of tea or coffee with some biscuits, cakes or snacks.
It is basically the meal or snack that you have between breakfast and lunch.
I know that people normally think that in English.
We have afternoon tea with a lot of cakes and biscuits and cups of tea, but that doesn't really happen.
It is true that English people drink lots of cups of tea.
For example, in my family, we have a cup of tea every day.
hour or every two hours.
But we don't have cake and biscuits and a cup of tea like the queen every afternoon because normally we are all at work.
Some cafes sell afternoon tea but it's very expensive.
and it's for events like your birthday or you go out with your mom on a special day or with your friend it's not something that you do every day if you visit somebody's house in England they normally give you a cup of tea
with some biscuits and some cakes.
It is quite typical.
They don't normally offer some juice or some water like they do in other countries because it is cold, in England, they usually offer a cup of tea or coffee for the people.
that don't like tea.
They will also ask you if you like to have sugar in your tea.
Some people don't have sugar and others have one or two teaspoons of sugar.
If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe.
Thank you and I'll see you.
a big breakfast.
Some Sunday mornings I go to a restaurant or a cafe with my parents to have a full English breakfast.
This is the typical breakfast in England but people only have it at weekend and not at...
They normally have it at 10 or 11 a.m. A full English breakfast has bacon, sausages, toast, fried mushrooms, fried tomatoes, baked beans, which are beans in tomato sauce.
fried egg and black pudding.
I hate black pudding but I love the rest.
I think that a full English breakfast on Sunday morning is the best thing in the world.
What time do you have lunch?
I normally have lunch.
at 12 or 1 o'clock.
In England people usually have a sandwich with a packet of crisps or maybe a small salad but it's usually very small because the main meal of the day is dinner which is later.
You know...
have lunch at work or at school so it's something that you can eat very quickly.
What do you have for lunch?
I normally have a sandwich and a piece of fruit like an apple or a banana.
What time do you have dinner?
I have dinner at about 6 o'clock.
I have it after work.
Some people have it at 5 o'clock, some people at 6 and some people at 7.
It depends on the time you finish work or school.
dinner is the biggest meal of the day and people usually have a lasagna, a pasta dish, some meat and vegetables, fish and vegetables, things like that.
It is true that in England we eat a lot of potatoes.
So you normally have some fish, potatoes and then peas, carrots, broccoli.
These are the typical vegetables that we have in England.
It also depends if you are good at cooking or not.
I know that some people are very good at cooking.
Are you a beach person or a mountain person?
I'm definitely a beach person.
I don't like mountains.
I like to go to a beach which is flat and I can spend time with.
Is a beach holiday the best type of holiday?
My opinion yes it is the best type of holiday.
It's a place where you can relax, sit on the beach, go for a swim in the sea.
That's a bird.
What do you like to do at the beach?
Like I've just said, I like to go walking on the beach.
I like to sit on the beach.
I like to go swimming and see.
I like to sit on my towel and read a book or sometimes just watch people go there.
What did children usually do at the beach?
And children like to play in the sand.
And children like to play in the sand.
Some children built...
sandcastles, sun play at the water's edge and some light to play different sports, which is football and volleyball.
What types of sports can people do in the water?
Well, I've seen people do lots of different types of sports.
Obviously swimming, then there is wind surfing, lively, canoeing, surfing.
That's correct.
Surfing as well.
What dangers might you find on the beach?
The biggest danger on the beach is the water, the sea.
You have to be careful with the waves, the depth of water and especially if there isn't a life-gone beauty then you have to be very careful.
Sometimes when you're at the beach you can see children playing with inflator balls and that's quite dangerous isn't it?
That's right it is children like to take inflatables onto the water But if it's windy they can't be a danger as the wind will blow the inflatable across the top of the sea What do other people do at the beach, but you don't like to do at the beach a Lot of people like to take off their clothes and lie in the sun And they go very red when the sun is very hot and they go
sunburned.
So do you take a tent or a parasol to the beach?
I do.
I like to take some sort of protection from the sun so usually parasol and I like to wear a lot of suncream.
Would you like to live in a house on the beach?
Yes I would.
That would be my perfect location.
Imagine waking up in the morning and looking out at the window.
see the sats and the sea.
I think it might be very windy though and the seagulls might be quite noisy.
Well that is one of the things that I would get used to.
It would just be so nice to see the sea out of my room.
What can we do about dirty or polluted beaches?
Dirty and polluted beaches are a big problem.
I particularly don't like to see...
plastic, left on the beach, paper objects left on the beach and definitely the worst thing is when people finish their cigarette and throw their cigarette and onto the beach.
How do you think we can keep beaches clean?
Well it's a situation where you have to educate the public to use the little bins and put their rubbish into the little bins to keep.
the beach is clean.
And finally, why do you think some people don't like going to the beach?
I've heard people say that they don't like going to the beach because they don't like sand.
They don't like the thought or feeling of sand being in their toes on their feet in their fingers and they just object to sand.
If you have enjoyed this video
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be following some B2 or first certificate, speaking questions about the media.
This might help you to practice for your speaking exam or you can just listen along.
The first question is, how do you know what's happening in the world?
Well, I normally look at the news.
in the morning before I go to work while I'm having my breakfast.
I've downloaded the BBC News app on my phone, so I normally take a look at that in the morning and I press on the news stories that I find the most interesting.
The next question is, do you ever listen to the radio?
Yes, I sometimes...
a story that you're interested in.
Whereas when you're watching the news on TV, normally you've got to watch the whole program and there are a lot of news reports that you're not really interested in.
And also reading the news in the newspaper is quite good because you can read one news story and then put it down and then maybe 20 minutes.
you can come back and continue reading.
Whereas on TV it's normally at a set time so you would have to turn the TV on at 3 o'clock or at 9 o'clock whenever the news are on and if you miss that time slot then you miss the news.
The final question is do you think computers will replace newspapers and TV in the future?
Yes, I'm sure that computers or whatever the new technology will be in the future will replace newspapers and TV because like we said before, there are quite a few disadvantages to watching the news on TV because you've got to turn it on at that specific time, you've got to watch all of the news so it's quite time consuming.
And also there's quite a few disadvantages to reading newspaper.
It can be quite boring for some people if your attention span isn't that good.
And I think that in the future people will want everything quite instant.
And I think that they will want to select what they want to see, when they want to see it and when they want to see it.
I just like how it is like when...
open up my phone and press on the BBC app.
I can choose where I want to look at the news and where I do it from and also what type of stories I'm interested in.
So in today's video we have talked about the media following some speaking questions from exams.
If you have enjoyed this video please give it a thumbs up.
listen to the radio in the morning while I'm on my way to work.
However, it just depends on the day really because if I'm very tired, I don't listen to the radio.
I find that in the morning they still play songs that are very loud and so if I'm very tired and I haven't slept well.
I don't really fancy.
listening to rock music.
So it just depends on how I feel that morning and on the type of music that they are played.
The next question is what programs do you like on the radio?
I like the music programs that they have on the radio, especially the ones that are on in the afternoon.
These programs
play really good music and I can sing along while I'm driving back from work and every half an hour they tell you a summary of the things that have happened back day so they tell you a short version of the news and I think it's quite good because when you come back from work you don't really want to listen to
of the news, so it's good to know what's happening in the world, but for it to be short and sweet.
The next question is, how important is TV to you?
TV isn't that important to me.
I watch Netflix more than cable TV, so this is why I would say that I could easily live without TV.
Well, I could live without Netflix too, but I don't watch it every single day.
I might watch something at the weekend.
If my parents send me a message to say, turn on the TV because we're watching this program and it's really good.
So I might watch it then, but I don't have a program that I watch every single week.
The next question is, do you like the same TV programs as your parents?
No, I don't like the same TV programs as my parents because they like a lot of the quiz shows, but I don't like them.
There are some quiz shows in England that are called, who wants to be a millionaire and pointless and my parents enjoy watching them, but I don't.
I think that it's quite a long time to spend watching a program because they last about one hour, I think.
And when I come back from work, it is a long time to spend watching a program.
My parents are retired, so that is how they have so much time to watch them.
The next question is, what's the difference between reading me?
use in the newspaper and watching it on TV.
Well the obvious difference is that on TV there are videos and there are photos in the report.
Whereas in the newspaper there are only photos.
But another difference is that in the newspaper you can flip through the pages to
Hello and welcome to Elephant English Podcasts.
In today's video I'm going to be giving some tips for learning English.
My first tip is to focus on your interests.
Try to learn English in a way that interests you.
If you like reading books, read English books.
If you like listening to music, listen to music.
English songs.
This makes the process of learning the language a lot more fun and that way you will probably practice it more.
If you think about studying English and you associated with a grammar book instead of your favourite series, you will probably think of English as an obligation.
And my final tip is to reward yourself.
Whenever you achieve your goals, reward yourself with something you enjoy.
Learning a language is difficult, so make sure that you have a routine, but you also need to rest and to take a break some days.
What tips for learning English could you give to people?
Let me know in the comments.
So, I recommend you to do mainly fun things or things that you are interested in English.
I'm sure that you will become more motivated and will spend more time on it.
My second tip is to accept mistakes.
Everyone makes mistakes, especially when learning a new language.
Don't be a...
afraid to make them, instead view them as opportunities to learn and improve.
People get embarrassed when they make mistakes, but in reality it doesn't matter if you make little mistakes.
The important thing is that the other person can understand you.
Of course in your English class, you will be corrected if you may.
a mistake, but in real life situations people probably won't correct you or get angry with you if you say something wrong.
So the most important thing is to be friendly and just do your best.
My third tip is to use a variety of resources.
Use different materials to keep things interesting
and challenging.
Use textbooks, audio and video materials, language exchange apps and online courses.
You don't need to only focus on one thing depending on the day or how you feel if you are too tired from work or are feeling very motivated and concentrated.
You can use one resource.
or another.
Don't make it an obligation to do grammar every day, for example.
If you are too tired, it is probably better just to watch an episode of your favourite series in English.
My favourite apps for learning vocabulary are Quizlet and quizzes.
On these apps, you can create your own flashcards.
words, with the translation of the words or their synonyms and you can test yourself on them.
It is an easy way to practice English while you are set on the sofa and it is a great way to revise the words that you have already studied.
I also like lyrics training because you can practice your listening skills by listening.
to songs.
What apps do you like to use?
Let me know in the comment section.
Another tip is to set achievable, realistic goals.
Having specific goals will help you stay motivated and focused on learning English, divide your goals weekly or monthly and try to achieve them on time.
do lists are a great way to check your progress.
Maybe you could learn 20 new words per week about a specific topic, but make sure that you are realistic.
It is impossible to learn 1000 words in one week.
Let me know if you would like me to start a vocabulary challenge for you to learn new words every week.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 181 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing great in today's episode.
We're going to talk about using bad words in English.
When I say the phrase bad words, I'm referring to curse words or cuss words, as we might say.
So.
these words that are considered to be vulgar, explicit.
You know what I'm talking about.
You have them in your language, and we have them in English.
So this is a very important topic to talk about here on this podcast, because all of you are learning English, and many of you are probably tempted to...
words, curse words in English.
So I'm a little bit biased when it comes to this because I don't curse in my own language.
So you might think that that's why I'm telling you not to curse, to cuss in English either.
By the way, cuss can be used as a verb.
This just means to say bad words.
So you might think that I'm telling you not to cuss in English because I don't like cuss words.
That's not the case.
I'm gonna approach this from a different perspective.
Okay?
I acknowledge that I have my own personal preference as well, but I'm gonna go beyond that and give you a couple warnings.
So, many native speakers, many English speakers, do not like bad words.
Okay?
I can't really speak for other countries.
and other languages.
I don't know about this because I'm only a native English speaker.
However, I can say that at least in the US there is a pretty large percentage of the population that finds it inappropriate to use that word.
And maybe in your language it's not that big of a deal.
Everyone cusses.
I don't know, but I'm talking about English here.
There are many people in the US that dislike these cuss words and English learners need to know this.
Okay?
You can't assume that everyone is going to find it funny when you use a cuss word in English.
Okay?
And the people that don't find this funny and don't find it appropriate, they often find things nice.
vulgar.
When something is crass, that means it is not refined, it's not intelligent, it sounds dumb, so to say.
It's not very beautiful.
So many native speakers might find cuss words to be vulgar, inappropriate, dirty, crass.
And you might not think so, and that's perfectly fine.
Okay, you have your own preference.
people have their own preference and even for me I'm not someone who cusses a lot, I try not to.
That doesn't mean that when someone cusses in front of me, I automatically think negatively about that.
Definitely not because many people cuss in front of me so.
That's kind of something I'm used to but I might have a slightly negative reaction.
I can't deny that.
I think that when someone cusses in a very Crasse way very vulgar way Yeah, I do feel negative in that situation and other people feel the same as me again Don't take this the wrong way.
Don't think that if you're talking to me and use a cuss word I'm gonna think negatively about you.
No, I'm just saying that a certain type of Cussing
can definitely sound vulgar.
It's maybe not what is very pleasant for me.
Let's say.
I'm not saying that my view is correct or not or that it's correct or incorrect to use cuss words because we are the ones that give meaning to these words.
These words, by themselves, don't mean anything.
We are the ones that ascribe meaning.
to these words.
When you ascribe meaning to something, that means that you are applying this move to that thing.
So you will probably meet many native speakers that like cussing and that won't be offended by you cussing and then You won't have to worry about this and even if you talk to people like me, you can cuss all you want It's fun, right?
it's not a problem, but there are some people that really dislike this.
If they hear certain curse words, they will cover their child's ears, right?
They will not want to be in that way.
For them, it's inappropriate to hear them.
And so I'm saying all this because it's important for you as a non-native English speaker to know the effect of your words and how they...
learn curse words and to incorporate them into your English.
And I have kind of maybe a unique opinion about this, unique in the sense that I'm sure many other online English teachers disagree with me about this.
And I'm sure you might disagree with me about this.
But as I mentioned all the time on this
sound to native youth.
This is something that's very hard to imagine.
For me, for example, I speak Spanish and I speak pretty well and I can easily cuss in Spanish if I want it to.
And I've done so before.
I've done this, I've cussed in Spanish before.
I've done that.
And I can't 100% say...
that I know the effect of that cuss word on native use because I am not a native speaker.
So these cuss words sound differently to me.
In fact, when someone is talking to me in Spanish and they cuss, I don't have the same reaction as when someone speaks to me in English and Cusses.
I have a much more powerful reaction.
to a cuss word in English than in Spanish because that cuss word in English has so much more depth and meaning for me as a native speaker.
It's not just a funny sounding word like in Spanish.
Does that make sense?
I'm sure you feel the same.
If you say cuss word in English, it probably doesn't feel the same way as when you say a cuss word in your own
conversation in your native language, right?
And I've gotten in trouble with this before.
I've used words that aren't necessarily terrible words, but I didn't know the impact of that word on the native speakers ears who I was talking to, and they kind of looked at me like, wow, why did you say that?
And that's because I can't fully understand.
the effect of that.
I'm not a native speaker.
My level isn't sufficient enough where I perceive things the same way that a native speaker perceives them.
And so the same goes for you.
You might say something and in English and you might use a cuss word and your sentence and native English speaker who's talking to you might kind of be.
taken out of the conversation for a second while they think of the word.
So I'm speaking from experience here.
I've had tons of students over the years.
I've had many thousands of hours of conversation with people from all over the world and I've had many people use cuss words while they're speaking in English to me.
And I have to say that...
in a large number of those cases, it actually sounds awkward or it sounds awful even sometimes.
Not always.
Some people that have a very high level and have a very intimate knowledge of how these words feel and in what situations they're used in and they can read.
native speaker better and see if they're open to hearing that word used or not.
I've had students like that for sure.
So it doesn't always sound bad, but I would say that large percentage of the time, it actually doesn't sound very good when a non-native speaker uses these curse words.
And that's not me just being biased saying, oh, I don't like curse words, because when a native speaker uses a curse words,
uses curse words to me.
Sometimes I might not like it if it sounds very vulgar, but I wouldn't say it sounds bad in the sense that I'm like removed from the conversation and then like I can't even focus on the rest of the sentence because it was such an awkward usage of the word.
That doesn't happen when it's a native speaker.
I might not like the way they said the sentence, but it's not the same.
I'm talking about when I'm having a conversation with a non-new speaker and they use a cuss word that just really surprises me and doesn't seem like it fits in place with their speech in that sentence and it surprises me and it sounds really awful.
And so let me just talk about why it sometimes sounds awkward or even awful.
I think...
podcast.
It's great to practice being able to listen to people that you disagree with.
I do this all the time.
It helps me.
It's good for you to do this as well.
And even if you disagree with me about this, this episode will still be good practice for you listening.
So I'm going to talk about using bad words in English and why this might...
One of the main reasons is that non-native speakers are often unaware of the magnitude, meaning how strong this word actually is.
They don't really have that very detailed knowledge healing of how that word really feels when you hear it.
In what situations it goes well and doesn't, and it often doesn't have the effect.
that you think it has as a non-speaker.
So it's like I'll hear someone say a sentence and then in the middle of their sentence they have this cuss word that sounds way too strong for like what they're saying.
This happens all the time and it takes me out of the conversation.
Whoa that was really strong and that's because the student doesn't realize.
that that cuss word doesn't go well in that tone of the sentence, right?
Like that cuss word was way too powerful for that phrase that it was.
Does that make sense?
Sometimes they get it right and they use a cuss word that has a very effective meaning with the sentence that they use and it actually works.
But...
In many cases, it's not this.
And they misjudge the effect of that customer.
They don't know how strong it is.
And if it makes the rest of their sentence seem strange.
And another reason why it can sound awkward when someone who is a non-native English speaker cusses is that when the rest of your sentence has errors in it, when you're making mistakes,
sometimes sounds a little strange when you use a cuss word.
And the reason for that is that cussing and maybe slang and using certain idiomatic expressions, often times these are things that feel like you can use them once you've mastered the rules.
It's kind of like when we say that you break the rules once you've actually mastered.
If you haven't mastered rules and you break the rules, it's kind of sloppy.
Sloppy means that something is messy, it's not done orderly.
So like when I was in film school, I remember my teachers would say, before you break the rules and do things that are very bizarre and strange, you first need to master the rules.
Otherwise.
Game조K
It won't be effective.
It will be strange to see your film and I think that's a good lesson to apply to Language learn.
I'm not saying that you need to completely master English or you use slang and password No, but what I'm saying is that if you Speak with many mistakes in your sentences and then you try to use a word or expression That sounds very
very native and it's something that we wouldn't expect from someone who is learning the language.
It can take us by surprise and sound a little bit funny.
It's like when we hear a non-native speaker, because we sometimes laugh because it is so surprising.
They're not expecting it.
Whereas when a native speaker cusses, we don't necessarily laugh.
which is a normal thing to hear a cuss word in a sense.
But when we know someone is learning the language, they're just in the process of trying to say sentences correctly, we don't expect to hear this explicit word.
Does that make sense?
Don't be offended by what I'm saying.
If you cuss with your English, I'm not saying that's wrong.
I'm just trying to help you see it from the...
perspective.
I think it's a good thing to take this into consideration and know that just because you're using cuss words and really hip slang, it doesn't necessarily mean that your English sounds better or current because if the rest of your sentence is unnatural or has errors, it kind of just sounds strange.
So I would say to focus a little
be a bad idea for you.
So we'll talk about that in just a minute.
But before that, remember that you can access my training for listening and pronunciation, my seminars, which I help you pronounce things better, listen better, you can access those by signing up for my membership.
The different levels give you different content, different rewards.
And if you want my advanced episodes, you can become a...
more on speaking, more accurately, getting more practice.
And when you hear a phrase with a cuss word, maybe that your teacher uses, and maybe you know, oh, I can use that phrase.
I really understand that phrase.
Maybe you will be better able to use that phrase and just copy what the native speaker says if you really feel like you want that effect of that phrase.
But it's...
It's probably not a good idea to just take a bunch of different cuss words and try to insert them into your speech to sound or native.
That doesn't work.
So just to summarize that point, if you hear a phrase that has a cuss word in it, you've heard that phrase many times, you can kind of get the effect of it, you feel the humor in it, or whatever.
It's probably safe to re-prope-
do that phrase in that same type of context.
But you're probably going to run into problems if you just learn the different cuss words and try to put them into your sentences for effect.
That's when you can kind of go wrong.
And like I said, you might use a word that is a lot stronger than what you think, right?
I'm not going to say this word here on this podcast, but...
I'm sure most of you know what I'm talking about when I say the F word, right?
The bad word that starts with an F. You probably hear this all the time in movies and TV shows made in the US.
And so I hear non-native speakers just use this word over and over again.
And this can really offend native speakers.
This is a really strong word.
used in certain contexts.
In other contexts, maybe not as much.
But if you don't know these different contexts well, if you don't have this feeling, you can definitely offend native speakers by using this word over and over again, if there's someone that finds it vulgar.
Again, I'm not saying this is right or wrong.
I'm just talking about preferences here and trying to help.
you so you don't run into these situations because I've had this before.
We're not listening to a non-native speaker speak English and they throw in the F word like three times in three sentences and I can't even like focus on the rest of what they're saying.
It's just so striking.
It's such a powerful word and they haven't mastered the usage of it.
They don't understand the
YouTube.
So that's kind of the warning I wanted to give.
Again, many people will disagree with me about this and if you disagree with me, that's perfectly fine.
Okay, you have every right to disagree with me about this.
And maybe I'm wrong.
Maybe this idea isn't so correct.
I don't know.
I'm just talking from my experience of what I've noticed.
And I've heard
other people talk about this too.
So I know I'm not the only one who feels this way, but I think it's good that you hear this one just so that you know that if you curse in English, you should keep these things in mind.
I'm not saying that you can't do it.
Just keep these things in mind.
They'll help you through this process.
Okay.
So hopefully this was interesting for you and helpful for you.
If you want my help,
with your pronunciation and with your listening skills, then make sure to check out my membership.
I have a lot of training in that membership that can help you improve your pronunciation, listening, and for listening time family members, you also get my advanced podcast, you get two new advanced episodes every month, and that will help you get a custom to fast English.
And of course, you have my US Conversations podcast available if you're interested.
a listening time family member and you'll receive two new episodes every month in which I speak at normal speed.
That's great practice for you listening and then the next step after that is to use my US Conversations podcast in which I talk to other people from around the country, other native speakers and I provide a transcript for you with definitions of key words and phrases.
So it's a lot of fun.
It's great practice for you.
The links to sign up for both of those are down below.
And as always, please give this podcast a five star rating if you haven't done so already.
And write a review if you can.
Alright, let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay, let's talk about using curse.
words in English.
So many people are interested in incorporating curse words into their English, learning English, so that they can sound more like native speakers.
They can access the humor in the language.
They can have a different effect on people when they speak.
And I definitely understand this desire.
We all desire to be able to talk like a native speaker using their slang, knowing the curse words they know, being able to use that for humor, to be funny, to fit in.
I definitely understand that.
However, I do want to warn you that there can be some negatives to a 4%
persuading curse words into your English as an English letter.
Like I said, many of you will probably disagree with me.
That's fine, but I want to give you this warning because it's at least something that's good for you to think about.
And being perfectly honest, even as native English speaker, I try not to use explicit...
Valentine's Day is celebrated all over the world every year on the 14th of February.
It is a special day to celebrate love and affection.
Valentine's Day is not a national holiday in the UK, so schools, offices and government buildings are open.
On Valentine's Day people usually give car.
letters or gifts to the people that they love.
People also exchange chocolates and flowers.
Some couples go out on dates or take a romantic trip to celebrate this day.
Nowadays it is a very commercial holiday.
Shops start selling chocolate boxes.
date and have dinner with their partner.
And the least popular option this year is to go on a romantic trip.
A really 14% of those who are going to celebrate Valentine's Day are going to go on holiday.
The main reason why a lot of people don't celebrate Valentine's Day is because they think that it is too commercial.
People believe that the only reason why Valentine's Day is so popular is because the shops want to sell a lot of products to make money.
So they believe that it is a waste of money and that you should show your love every day not only once a year.
So reason for not selling.
is believing that it is too old fashioned or because it is too expensive.
Like we said before, romantic dinners at home are going to be the preferred option on Valentine's Day this year.
This is probably because of the cost of living crisis.
Rent, food and bills.
like water, gas or electric have gone up so much that people can't afford to go on special dates at a restaurant.
Instead of buying gifts and spending a lot of money at a restaurant, they are going to have a romantic date night with their partner with a home-faked meal or a take-off.
way.
Having a takeaway is much cheaper because you don't have to buy drinks.
Alcohol is quite expensive in England and a pint of beer costs around 590.
That means that if the two of you have a pint of beer at a bar, a pub or a restaurant that would be more than 10 pounds.
So by having
a home-based meal or a takeaway at home, you will be saving that amount of money, which is a lot.
A date night in can also make you feel special, but at a lower cost.
If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.
Thank you very much and I'll see you in my next video.
Heart-shaped objects like cushions, flowers and other types of gifts, only days after Christmas has finished.
This celebration actually comes from St Valentine, who was a Roman priest who lived during the third century.
The Emperor Claudius II thought that men without...
wives and children were better soldiers.
So he decided that young men could not get married and this way they would be better soldiers.
Valentine thought that this was wrong so he continued to marry young couples in secret.
However, Claudius the second found out about what he was doing.
So...
who was killed.
We don't really know why it is celebrated on the 14th February.
Some people say that Valentine might have died in the middle of February, but others believe that it is because of another Roman celebration called Lupa Carlia, which was celebrated on the 15th of February.
In this tradition, members of the Lupuriki who were Roman priests would go to a cave, where they thought that the babies' Romulus and Remus, who were the founders of Rome, were looked after by a wolf, or Lupur.
I'm sure that you have all heard.
of these legends.
At this cave the priests killed or sacrificed a goat and a dog so that the women would be more fertile the next year.
They also did this to make the lung more fertile too so that they would have enough food the following year.
After they sacrificed a goat and a dog, the ladies put their names in a big pot.
The young male Romans took a name from the pot and the man and the woman became a couple.
These couples often married.
So this could be one of the reasons why.
Valentine's Day is celebrated on the 14th of February.
Although Valentine's Day is a well-known celebration all over the world, in the UK only 59% of people who are in relationships are going to celebrate it this year.
Romantic dinners are going to be the most popular way to...
celebrate this year.
43% of the people who are going to celebrate it are planning to celebrate it this way.
43% is quite high compared to the percentage of people who are going to have dinner out at a restaurant.
Only 29% are going to go out on it.
Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast.
Hey everybody, this is Connor and you're listening to episode 146 of the Listening Time Podcast.
I hope you're all doing fantastic and I hope that your English learning is going well and that maybe you're starting to speak and have conversations in English.
I know that it's hard.
when he first starts speaking English and that's actually what we're going to talk about in today's episode.
I want to talk about why people are afraid to speak English.
I think that this episode will be helpful for all of you, especially if you're just starting to speak or maybe you haven't spoken yet.
You're still waiting.
when I say that when people can't understand me well during our conversation, the conversation does not go well.
It's not a very helpful hour or half an hour that we spend when the student can't understand you well.
However, if they understand you well, then...
That 30 minutes, one hour, is very useful for them.
They get to practice, they're speaking naturally, and it's beneficial.
But if they don't understand me, the conversation just doesn't go well.
It's very unnatural.
I have to repeat things many times or translate them.
And it's just not that.
fun.
So in my opinion, this is only my opinion, but I'm speaking from experience, if you can't understand English pretty well, then that should be your focus.
You should focus on understanding English pretty well.
Not perfectly, of course, maybe not even to an advanced level, but you should be able to understand.
pretty well.
And then that will really help you get started with your speaking.
Okay?
All right.
That being said, let's talk about the first reason why many people are afraid to speak.
And that is, they're afraid that they're going to say the wrong thing.
In other words, they think that they will make a lot of mistakes, whether it be with grammar.
or vocabulary.
They're going to say the wrong word or use the wrong structure.
Many people are afraid of this.
And this is inevitable.
When you say that something is inevitable, we're saying that it can't be avoided.
So when you start speaking English, it's inevitable that you're going to say...
the wrong words many times.
Okay?
That's not something you can avoid.
And it's not something that you will avoid when you're fluent even.
Because fluency does not mean perfect accuracy.
Fluency and accuracy are two different things.
So even when you become fluent in English, you're...
still going to make mistakes sometimes.
Okay?
So don't have this idea that some people, when they learn English, they don't make mistakes, and you make a lot of mistakes.
No, that's not reality.
We all make mistakes.
We all say things wrong.
We all use the wrong words when we're learning a language.
Okay?
and most mistakes aren't significant.
That's something really important that I want you to remember.
Most of your mistakes aren't that significant.
Some of them are, of course, but most of them aren't.
If you use the wrong form of a verb, for example, maybe you've used the wrong verb tense or you just didn't know.
how to use the verb tense correctly, that's usually not going to be a huge problem.
Okay, if you used the present perfect when in reality it would have been better to use the past simple.
Sometimes it's significant, but most of the time it's not.
Okay, so the important thing to remember is that...
native speakers just want to understand you.
That's what we're focused on.
We're not focused on all of your mistakes.
We just want to understand what you're saying.
And so if your mistake isn't significant, if it doesn't change our understanding of what you're saying, then it doesn't really matter that much.
Okay, I'm not saying that.
and you're a little bit worried about starting.
I think that this episode will help you if you're in that situation.
And I think that it will give you a little bit of motivation to start if you feel like you're getting to the point where you're ready to speak because you understand a lot, but you.
you shouldn't try to get better and correct your mistakes.
Of course, you should do that.
However, don't be afraid to make mistakes because as long as these mistakes don't affect the native speakers understanding of what you're saying, then they're not significant.
You can focus on the significant.
mistakes for sure.
For example, a really big one is that some people have the tendency of saying she when they really want to say he that's a big mistake.
That's something that will cause a lot of problems.
So focus on those big mistakes but to be honest the majority of your mistakes aren't big so don't worry.
And how do you get better at this and not make as many mistakes, not say the wrong thing?
Well, you need to have more conversations.
If you can already understand pretty well, of course you need to continue listening.
That will help you too.
That always helps, of course.
But having...
more conversations will also eventually teach you the correct way to speak.
Okay?
You're gonna develop that memory of what to say and what sounds natural.
If you speak a lot and have conversations and you hear the other person say things to you and over time...
the natural correct way to say things will become automatic for you.
But it takes time and it's little by little, right?
So just start having conversations if you can understand English pretty well and just know that you'll make mistakes.
But the conversations themselves are the training.
that you need to eventually not make as many mistakes, right?
Pretty simple.
So let's talk about another reason why people are afraid to speak English.
And that is that they are afraid that they have bad pronunciation or that they have a big accent, a heavy accent.
And I talked about this recently in an episode.
some of this we've already heard you say before, but just know that we all have pronunciation problems and we all have an accent.
Again, we're all in the same boat here.
That phrase we're all in the same boat means that we're all in the same situation.
Okay, it's not different for some of us.
Okay?
We don't say things the way that native speakers say them when we're learning that language, especially as an adult, right?
We don't have the same muscle memory of how to make the correct sounds and all of that, okay?
And I have this problem big time in French.
the phrase big time.
This is used to emphasize something like I'm saying really very.
So I have this problem big time in French.
My accent isn't that bad in Spanish or Portuguese or maybe even Italian even though I just started learning but in French it's awful.
It's something that I really need to work on, but I know that most other people when they learn French they also have a really big accent, a really heavy accent when they speak.
And I used the word awful to describe my accent, but I really shouldn't say that because I don't want you to think that your accent is awful or bad.
I'm just
a little bit afraid.
I hope that after listening to this, you'll feel a little bit more competent to start this process of speaking in English.
So that's what we'll talk about today.
So I'm sure you'll like this episode.
And if you feel like you understand me really well already and you want to practice with something more difficult.
making fun of myself when you make fun of someone, this means that you laugh at them because of something negative about them.
So I'm just making fun of myself.
I saying that my accent is awful, but really don't think of accents as being awful, good, bad.
Just think of the language and...
the sounds as being a system that you will get better at over time and don't think that your accent is terrible just except that you have an accent and you'll work on that over time, right?
And just like I talked about before with saying the wrong words, the same things the wrong way in terms of...
of your pronunciation or your accent, usually this isn't too significant either.
Most of your pronunciation errors aren't super significant.
They don't affect the native speakers understanding of what you're saying.
Some of your mistakes are significant when it comes to your pronunciation or your accent.
Some of them are.
That is true.
But most of them aren't.
Again, I'm trying to help you be less afraid here.
I'm not saying that there aren't significant mistakes.
Of course there are.
But most of your mistakes aren't significant.
So you need to have a little more confidence and don't be afraid of making mistakes with vocabulary or grammar or...
pronunciation.
However, you should focus on the significant mistakes that you do make, and especially if these mistakes can be easily corrected.
I think in the episode about pronunciation, I gave the example of stressing the wrong syllable in a word.
This can be very easily corrected, and it can make a big...
difference in helping the native speaker understand you.
I remember hearing this employee at a Chinese restaurant asking this native speaker if he wanted any appetizers and she wasn't a native speaker this worker and she stressed the wrong syllable.
She said appetizer and
the way she said it was very hard to understand for the native speaker because he was expecting her to say appetizer.
That's the correct way to say it.
And he misunderstood her and she had to repeat it.
And in that situation, it was a significant error because he couldn't understand her.
But it's easily correctable.
the right syllable.
So of course to get better at things like this, we need to do a lot of listening and to listen with the intention of hearing the way that things are pronounced.
Maybe some of your listening practice can be dedicated to focusing on the sounds of the language and not just on understanding the words.
So...
listening with that intention can be really helpful.
And of course, I'm someone who trains people to pronounce English better.
So of course, with my membership, if you have signed up for a certain level, a certain tier of the membership, you'll get my pronunciation training as well.
So of course, you have that resource and...
other people have resources and can teach you pronunciation as well.
But just know that it isn't as natural to improve your pronunciation as it is to improve your vocabulary and grammar.
So it might be a little bit harder to improve in this area, but you can.
Okay, it's possible.
Then I recommend that you sign up to become a listening time family member.
So you can practice with my advanced episodes in which I speak fast.
So the link to sign up is down below in the episode description.
That's patreon.com slash listening time.
And if you want something even more challenging, then you can practice with my US Conversations podcast.
and with the right resources and dedicating the time to actually practicing this and listening intently to the sounds that you hear, this will help.
It's not easy, but you can get better over time.
But just know that all of us have pronunciation issues and...
And all of us have issues with our accent when we speak foreign languages.
And we English speakers actually expect you to have an accent when this isn't your first language.
And we hear accents all the time because many people learn English as a second language.
And so we're really accustomed to this.
Don't be afraid that we're gonna...
make fun of you and criticize your accent.
No, don't be afraid of that.
Just know that this is normal.
And try to correct the significant errors.
But most of your pronunciation errors are not significant.
And one other reason why people are afraid to speak English is because they feel that they get stuck by crazy.
freeze and they can't say anything or they don't know how to say things.
And again, this is normal.
This is something that is going to happen to you when you first start speaking, even if you can understand pretty well.
I always talk about how understanding English well will help you speak and get started speaking.
and that's true.
However, you're still going to feel like you get stuck often when you first start speaking, even if you understand well.
And this is similar to learning how to drive.
I talked about this recently in a YouTube video and I think there will be a bonus episode about this topic if I'm not mistaken.
And that's because...
I'm teaching my wife how to drive right now.
So this is on my mind.
And this is a great comparison because for example my wife she read the whole handbook that talks about all the rules that you need to know when driving in California and she had to memorize all of these things.
and she had to pass the test where she answered questions about the rules.
And she sees me drive almost every day because we drive places and she sees what I do, what I don't do.
She sees all of the different maneuvers that I make, the maneuver and some type of movement that you...
make with some intention.
So she sees my maneuvers, she sees what other drivers do, she can feel everything being in the car.
So she has all of that experience of learning how to drive.
But when she actually first started driving, it was like
She was frozen.
She felt stuck even though she knows where the brake pedal is, how to accelerate.
She knows the rules of the road.
She knows all of that.
But right now, because she just started driving actually behind the wheel as we say.
She's the one driving.
It's like she has to develop this muscle memory and learn how to do these different things, even if she kind of already knows them because she's seen me do these things.
She's read about them.
She knows them but she hasn't actually done them herself.
And now she's driven probably like...
in which I have conversations with different English speakers from around the country.
They're all teachers, we teach English, and we talk about a lot of different topics.
And with this podcast, you'll also just learn a lot about the country, about the US general.
It's a lot of fun, it's great practice for you.
So the link is also down below.
That's patreon.com.
six or seven times in total, and she's already improved a ton.
She's already doing very, very well compared to her first day driving, because on her first day, she felt like she didn't know what she was doing, even though she had already learned a lot of this.
And that's exactly how it feels when you first start speaking.
after you can already understand well.
You have heard so many words and phrases and sentences and grammatical structures and you understand them perfectly, but you haven't actually spoken yet.
And so the first time you speak, you're frozen.
You don't know how to speak very well because you don't have that muscle memory.
yet.
You haven't said these things out loud yet.
But after a few sessions of speaking, you already start to feel more comfortable.
You already start to feel like you're making some improvement and then the process and the progress continue after that and you eventually become a good speaker.
works like that, just like learning how to drive.
My wife, she gets all this passive knowledge first, and then she has to actually do it, and it's new for her, and it's hard at the beginning, but she's developing this muscle memory, and after like a week of driving, she's doing fantastic.
So that's how I want you to think about just fine.
topic when you feel stuck at the beginning when you don't know how to say things.
Just know that that's normal and that you're gonna develop this ability through consistent speaking.
Okay.
Of course, tons of listening as well, but also consistent speaking.
Okay.
This is normal and it's supposed to happen and you'll get...
through it if you just commit to speaking consistently.
Okay?
All right, hopefully this episode was interesting for you and hopefully it motivates you to speak if you can already understand pretty well and don't be afraid, don't think you're the only one with these issues, we all have these issues.
Okay?
And if you want to practice with something a little...
harder than this podcast, make sure to become a listening time family member to get my advanced episodes and you can also sign up for my US conversations podcast to practice with my conversations with other English speakers.
So both of those links are in the episode description below this episode and the transcript for this episode is down there as well and
slash US conversations and as always please share this podcast with any English learners that you know and please give it a five star rating and writer review on Spotify or Apple podcasts.
Alright let's get started.
Are your ears ready?
You know what time it is.
It's listening time.
Okay let's talk about why people are afraid.
to speak English.
In this episode I'm going to talk about the three main reasons my opinion.
Why people are afraid to speak English and we'll talk about why people have that fear and I'll try to relieve your fears a little bit.
Hopefully you won't feel as afraid after listening.
before I mention these three reasons, my people are afraid to speak.
I wanna note that I still think that it's important to be able to understand English pretty well before you start speaking consistently.
I'm not saying you have to do this.
Everyone has different philosophies when it comes to language learning.
And I'm not saying that...
I'm right and everyone else is wrong.
However, in my experience, having conversations with people from all over the world, students who are learning English from many different countries, I've done this for many years.
I've talked to many people for thousands of hours.
So I'm speaking from experience here.
My alarm clock went off at 7 o'clock this morning, but I got up 15 minutes later.
I got dressed and put on some nice clothes.
I rushed through my morning routine because I didn't want to be late for work.
I headed out the door on time and showed up.
at the office at half past eight.
I clocked in or punched in with my ID card so that my supervisors knew I had arrived.
When I walked into the office everyone was talking about the fact that Darren was no longer going to be the CEO of the company.
more time with his family.
Sinking, which means to understand and process information, especially big news.
When I heard the news, I took some time to let it sink in.
Work on means spend time doing some.
especially improving it.
For example, if someone says you need to work on your pronunciation, it means you need to focus on it.
I have been working on this task for over a month.
Handing it means to send something to your teacher or boss, someone in your course.
I need to hand in the final report next week.
Bring up which means to start to talk about something, to start a conversation about a topic.
For example, he brought up the topic of getting married.
But in the case of work, my boss brought up some concerns.
returns he had about the project.
Run out of which means to use up and not have any left.
He knew that we were running out of time.
Take on means to undertake a choir or begin to do some work.
For example, we had taken a...
on two main tasks for only three workers.
Figure out means to discover, to find a way.
I figured out a way for our company to cut costs.
Work out, coming to calculate or to solve.
If you work out something...
math, it means to calculate.
In this case it means to solve.
There was an issue in my team, but we worked it out.
Put off means to postpone, so to do something further in the future.
For example, the meeting was put off until tomorrow.
inflation targets the areas which we were first on.
Therefore, not any failments, powered digital services were ready for equivalences.
two things.
If you're catching up with a friend, then it means that you're having a conversation and updating them on your life.
But if you're catching up on work, then it means to get to the same level as the rest of your colleagues.
I had been ill for a week, so I had to catch up.
on my tasks.
It means that I needed to get back to where I should be because I was ill.
I didn't go to work for one week.
Call of means to cancel.
The event was called of due to the big storm.
Finally, this page.
Fill in needs to complete a form.
I filled in the form with a blue pen.
Burn out means to be so tired and overworked.
I felt burnt out because I had been working overtime.
Over time means more hours than you should.
For example, if you finish up 5 o'clock every day and one day you do overtime.
and you stay until seven o'clock.
Get ahead, which means to succeed, to be successful.
I would like to get ahead in my career before I have children.
Whereout means to be exhausted, very tired.
I felt really worn out because I woke up early.
And fine.
A few people believed that he had been laid off, but then we found out that he had stepped down.
After letting the big news sink in, I knew that I had to work on a presentation, as I was going to have a meeting at 11 o'clock.
It took me two hours to prepare.
Finally, clock out or punch out is the opposite to clocking or punching which is to arrive and to show your ID card.
So clock out means to leave.
I clocked out at 4pm yesterday.
So you finished work at 4.
If you have enjoyed this video please like it and subscribe to my channel.
it and when I had finished I handed it into my boss.
After I did my presentation some of my colleagues brought up a few issues that they had been having with the deadlines since they had been running out of time.
My boss agreed that our department had taken off.
too much work.
So he recommended we pass on some of the time-consuming tasks to another department.
We spent the next half an hour figuring out which tasks we could pass on to them.
In the end we worked it out.
The meeting lasted over two hours.
So a meeting that we were supposed to have had at one o'clock was put off until two o'clock.
At lunchtime I went to a nearby cafe to buy myself a sandwich.
Tommy was also on his break, so we made the most of our free time to chill out and to catch up on what
we had done at the weekend.
When two o'clock came around, we were told that the meeting had been called off because my boss was extremely busy.
After a stressful morning of meetings, I had to fill in some forms for the company.
I felt quite burnt out because...
because it seemed like every day at work was the same, but I was sure that I wanted to get ahead in this company.
Feeling worn out, I clocked out or punched out at 4 o'clock and drove back home.
Now we are going to see these work fraisel verbs.
Rush through.
means to do something very quickly.
For example, he rushed through his work so that he could go home on time.
Clocking or punching means to arrive at your workplace and use your ID card and the machine that you have at work so that your boss is.
know that you arrived, especially on time.
Layoff means to fire.
My colleague was laid off last month.
Step down, which means to leave a position or job to someone else.
The CEO decided to step down to spend.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
Today I'm going to be talking about what I normally do in the summer holidays.
I'm going to be using the present single tent which you use to talk about routines.
As I'm a teacher I have around two months off in summer.
School breaks up at the end of June and I start my holiday.
days at the beginning of July.
Two months is a long time, so I like to plan what I want to do each summer.
If I don't plan it correctly, summer is over quickly and I don't get to do the things that I want you to do.
At the start of the summer, I usually stay in England for a few weeks to visit my family.
Although I live in England, I don't see my family often,
they put perfume on and wear nice clothes because they are planning to go and have dinner while the sun's going down.
It might sound silly but I have very special memories of these type of moments.
It feels like you don't want the evening or the holiday to end.
When I come back from my holiday abroad, I usually stay at home for a few weeks to prepare for going back to work.
I don't like it when I get back from a holiday and I have to start work the following day.
I prefer to have some relaxing time at home before going back.
During this time I usually catch up on episodes of series that I have missed while I was on holiday.
Read a few books and I also like to go to this woman.
call while it is still open.
On the last days of August I always prepare materials that I am going to use for teaching that year.
I also like to declutter everything that I have on my phone and my laptop and I delete files, images and videos that I won't be using for you.
In a strange way, September is like starting a new year for me, so...
I like to start my year by doing all kinds.
So in today's video we've talked about what I normally do in my summer holidays.
If you have enjoyed this video, please like it and subscribe to my channel.
I've made some activities based on the topic of this video and you will find this along with a transcript in the description box.
I make the most of the holidays to go and spend time with them.
I go to the seaside to visit some members of my family as they live on the coast.
At the seaside there are a lot of things to do, not only going to the beach.
Traditional seaside towns in the UK have a pier which is a long structure that is on the beach that you can walk on or sit on.
to see the beach from a bot.
These towns often have a lot of arcades where you can insert coins into machines and you can play games like racing cars, dancing or throwing a ball into a hoop for example.
These are very entertaining especially on rainy days when you can't go to a beach.
food that people eat at these seaside towns are fishing chips, which can also have sausages or mashy peas, which is basically peas that have been squashed into a puree.
I don't like fish, but I enjoy having some chips, sausages and mashy peas after a long walk along the beach.
A lot of people that go to seaside towns stay in caravans with...
are called trailers in the United States.
They are basically like small apartments and have two or three bedrooms.
Some are very basic and cheap, whereas others can be more expensive and luxurious.
This just depends on how much holiday makers want to spend on the caravan and their accommodation.
After spending time at the seaside are...
I like to travel abroad.
I always travel to countries in Europe because the journey is shorter and it's much more comfortable.
I enjoy visiting different areas of Spain and France as they both have great weather, tasty food and beautiful beaches.
On my holiday abroad, I normally book an apartment instead of a hotel because it is
cheaper and also you can have more independence as there are no set hours to have breakfast, lunch or dinner.
I tend to book an apartment that has a communal swimming pool and is in walking distance to the beach because these are the main places where I will spend most of my time on holiday.
On my most recent holidays I've tried...
scuba diving and stand up paddle and I've enjoyed them a lot.
I love to spend time in the sea since it's something that I can't really do back in England.
I like to do culture activities too such as going to museums or visiting historical towns or cities.
I think it's good to do a variety of activities and extursions so that you don't just
sunbathe all day and get sunburned.
In the evenings I always like to go for a walk along the promenade which is the path that goes along the beach or the sea.
After the walk I usually go for a drink or for a snack at one of the bars or restaurants.
The evenings are my favourite time of the day when I go on a holiday because everyone dresses up.
Summer is now here, so in this video we are going to talk about my favorite 10 things to do during the summer holidays.
On the top of my list we have going on a beach holiday.
I'm sure that you all enjoy going on holiday to the beach.
To go to the pool, go to the beach.
some bay and even trying new water sports.
In England the weather isn't very hot during the year so it's nice to go abroad especially to places like Spain, Italy, the south of France or Turkey.
They are particularly popular destination.
You can look at how much you have improved in those two months.
In fifth place we have having a barbecue.
I enjoy inviting my friends and family over to my house to have a barbecue in the garden.
We prepare delicious food.
play games outdoor and enjoy time together.
In England, barbecues are quite popular, but some years we can't do many barbecues because it is too rainy.
But normally in July and August there are a few days that are great.
for getting together and having a barbecue together.
Another thing that I like to do in my summer holidays is to practice sport.
During the year, I don't normally have a lot of time to practice sport.
So I make the most of the time that...
that I have in summer and the daylight hours because in England it gets dark at about 10 o'clock at night.
To practice sports that I don't practice throughout the year.
These are normally aquatic sports because I can't really practice.
them in the months of November, December or January when it's very cold or sports that are quite time consuming like going for a run.
In my day to day life I don't usually have enough time to go for a one hour run.
So it's a great opportunity to stay.
Another thing that I like to do when I am on holiday in the summer is visiting museums and cultural sites.
I think that summer holidays are a great time to learn about history and culture.
Even there we are on holiday, it doesn't mean that we could...
don't have to learn anything.
I like going to museums and cultural sites, especially when I am visiting a different city or a different country.
In 8th place we have going on a road trip.
This isn't at the top of my list because normally I prefer to...
traveling by plane because I'm quite impatient when I'm on a road trip and I think that traveling by car is quite uncomfortable when you have been driving for 6 or 7 hours especially when it is you who is driving.
So although it can be uncomfortable
Going on a road trip is a great way to explore new destinations and you can stop at interesting landmarks and visit many different places on the way.
I do recommend planning the route before the travel, so in advance.
With that you know where...
you are going to stay each night.
I would love to have a van or motor home and then we wouldn't have that problem.
You could just leave anywhere inside the van or the motor home and it would be cheaper because you wouldn't have to book so many hotels.
In night plays.
or British tourists.
My favourite activity to do on a beach holiday isn't actually some bathing.
I know there are a lot of people like some bathing and getting tan, but I don't really enjoy it.
I prefer to try out new water sports like dining.
we have volunteering for an animal shelter.
I love volunteering in my local community, especially for animal shelters.
In the summer, a lot of people and a lot of volunteers go on holiday of world, so shelters really need some extra hands to...
help them.
My favourite activity to do at the shelter is to take the dogs for walks.
Dogs need to be taken on their walks once a day, so it is really great help for the shelters if you go and volunteer.
And finally, in health plays.
Another activity that I like doing in summer is reading.
I love to go to a charity shop and buy some books that I'm going to read that summer.
I usually choose romance books for the summer, not crying novels, because they are nice to read when you are.
being kayaking or paddle surfing for example.
I think it is quite fun and you also learn a lot of new skills.
My second favourite activity to do in the summer holidays is going to the mountains.
In England especially in the area where I live there are
quite a lot of mountains and the landscapes are truly beautiful.
So I like taking picnic, hiking and camping in these areas.
It is nice to see the wildlife as well.
My third favourite activity to do in the summer is attending music festivals or outdoor
concerts.
Summer is a very popular season for music festivals because of the good weather.
In England there are quite a lot of festivals.
The most famous ones are glass-domry, Reading and Leads festivals.
I'm sure that you will have heard of them.
A lot of famous artists perform at these festivals and it's better than a concert because it's a whole experience.
You spend the entire day there with your friends or your family.
There are different events, different food stands and...
and it's a fun day out.
It is true that it can be quite expensive.
It's normally about £100 per ticket per day, so if you spend a weekend at a festival, it isn't exactly cheap, but I think it's a typical...
on our activity that a lot of people enjoy.
My fourth favourite activity to do during the holidays is to learn a new skill or a new hobby.
Every year I set myself a goal, which could be learning a new language and your skill like painting or...
crafting and it is a good way to not be bored during the summer.
Sometimes when it's a rainy day or you don't feel too motivated, you might feel bored so it's good to have an activity that you can do and then at the end of the summer.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
Today we are going to be talking about where UK residents go on holiday.
The main vocabulary that we are going to practice is about travels and tourism but also numbers because I think that a lot of people who are learning English have difficulties to say and understand them.
especially in listening activities.
So, summer has just started in Europe, and a lot of people are thinking about their holidays.
As summer is normally when people go abroad and have their longest holidays of the year.
Because travel has been affected so much by the COVID pandemic, the data that I'm going to be talking about is going to be from over-receive travel and tourism studies.
for flights that are during the low season, like spring or autumn, when not a lot of people usually travel.
If you want to book a flight during high season, it is almost always going to be a lot more expensive because there is more demand.
So today we have talked about where UK residents normally travel to.
It will be interesting to see the statistics of 2022.
at the end of this year, because I have seen on social media that a lot more people are travelling and it seems to be going back to normal.
I hope that you enjoyed today's video and please comment telling me where you normally go when you travel abroad and the reasons why you normally travel.
Remember that I always create a worksheet for you to practice the important words of the video and...
of 2019.
There were only around 24 million visits abroad in 2020 because of the pandemic, which seems like quite a lot, but this figure was down 74% if we compare it to those from 2019.
Interestingly, even though it seemed that nobody went abroad for a leisure that
year, 60% of those visits were for holidays.
Now, let's forget about what has happened during these difficult years and focus on the information that we have from 2019.
There were 93.1 million visits overseas by UK residents in 2019.
The record was broken that year as UK
residents spent more than 62.3 billion pounds on visits abroad.
That means that they spent £670 on average per person, which is around 775 euros.
I was quite surprised when I read this because that means that a couple would spend about £1,300 every time that they
abroad which is quite a lot.
The main reason why people went abroad that year was for holidays, nearly two thirds which is nearly 66% of people who are holiday makers and travelled for this reason.
This was followed by visiting family or friends overseas.
Unsurprisingly, the number of business trips fell that year.
But they were still...
9 million visits for business purposes.
Now let's talk about where UK residents travel to, which I was most interested in.
Spain was at the top of the list with 18 million visits.
87% of people visited this country for holidays, as it has great beaches, lovely weather, tasty food and is not the...
that far from the UK.
Lots of British people visit areas of Malaga, Alicante, Balencia or some of the Spanish islands like Tenerife, Gran Canaria, Ivifau or Mayorca, which you have probably heard of.
After Spain, France, Italy, the US and the Republic of Ireland are the top places that are visited by the UK.
residents and 46% of the total trips abroad are to these countries.
Other countries that were in the top 10 of the list were the Netherlands, Greece, Germany, Portugal and Poland.
As you can see most of these countries are in the European Union so that explains why 72% of visits abroad.
were to EU countries.
Now that there are many budget airlines like Ryanair, EasyJet or Jet2 for example, it is very cheap to travel to another European country from the UK.
In fact, there are sometimes flights that are on sale and you can travel to Spain for 4-9 euros.
It is true though that the cheap flights are normally
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcasts.
In today's video we're going to be talking about sport with my dad.
The first question is do you like sport?
I do like sport.
I've followed sport all my life and I've got a wide interest in many different types of sport.
What's your favourite sport?
My favourite sport is football.
I don't play it but I love to watch it.
What football team do you...
I support English football team that play in the Premier League and they are called Restor City.
Why do you support Restor City?
I was born near the city of Lester so they were my local team so I've always supported them.
I think that people nowadays recognize the name Restor City, don't they?
Why is that?
That's right because in the season 2015 2016, Restor City.
when the Premier League, for the first time in history, it was achieved against all the odds.
No one gave them a chance to win the Premier League with the other big teams playing in that league, such as Manchester City, Liverpool, Manchester United, Chelsea, Tottenham, Oxford, but Leicester City defied the odds and they won the Premier League that year.
So 2016 Premier League champion, so estesitant.
Are there any of this folks?
that you like to watch.
I like to watch cricket and rugby union, but I do watch all kinds of sports such as tennis, athletics and sports, anything that is on the television.
Is there a lot of sport on television in the UK?
Yes, there are a lot of sports covered by the television channels in the UK.
Sky sports do a lot of sports coverage.
So almost every
game in every type of sport is actually on television somewhere.
Do you have to pay to get guy sports?
You do have to pay a subscription to the sky sports, so some people do that.
In the next part I want you to describe a sporting event that you have attended and you should say what kind of sport it was, where and when the event took place, why you did
decided to go to this event and explain how it compared to other sporting events you've been to.
Well, the last football match that I went to was probably my most memorable.
It's because we went into a hospitality suite.
Before the match we had a free course dinner and then we went to watch the football lesthe city versus Norwich city.
Lesthe city was 3-0.
And at the time of the match we went down into the area behind the seating and we had a drink and something to eat.
So that was very memorable.
It's not usually the case of support for the match.
And when was this?
This was in May of this year.
Do you think it was the best match you've ever been to?
Not the best match you've ever been to, but it was a different kind of experience.
The best match you've ever been to was when less than...
the next city was the Leacock.
What year was that?
That was in the year 1999.
Less the city, big, middle of birth.
The next question is what type of sports are the most popular in your country?
The most popular in England, I would say first football then rugby, rugby,
and cricket.
What do you think the benefits are of playing a sport?
I think it gets people together having a bit of competition, sometimes sports can be played inside or outside, so I think it's a general thing for well-being.
Have you ever practiced an extreme sport?
Oh no, that's something I never want to try.
When you were younger.
at school what sports did you practice?
In schools sports were divided into different terms.
So for example in the autumn term we did six weeks of football and six weeks of rugby union.
Spring term we did six weeks of hockey and six weeks of basketball in the gym.
And then in the summer term we would play cricket for...
In today's video we're going to talk about money.
How important is money to you?
I think that money is quite important to me.
It enables me to buy things I want to buy and to live how I would like to live.
Do you think that money can buy happiness?
I don't think it can actually buy happiness.
But I think it.
helps you to be happier in your life if you have money available to you.
So, do you think that richer people are happier than poorer people?
No, not necessarily.
I think that maybe poorer people know how much money they have and they live within their means.
Whereas richer people may have more...
they buy some sweets and then they have less money they can see how much they've spent and it just teaches them the value of money and they might realize that money doesn't grow on trees.
True, very true.
I think that often pocket money is linked to a reward system.
For example, if they keep their room tidy or healthy.
around the house then they get more pocket money and I think that's a good idea too.
Now we're going to be talking about saving money.
What are good ways to save money?
I think that a monthly saving scheme is a good idea whether it's £5 a month or £10 a month whatever you can afford it's...
builds up over the year or alternatively a piggy bank or money box where you put your loose change at the end of the week and that soon adds up and you find you have a lot of money at the end of the year.
A lot of people can't save a lot of their money and so by saving a small amount.
It helps towards an event like Christmas or birthday presents.
I think that's the best way to say if you haven't got a lot of money.
And what do you think is a waste of money?
I think that buying a lot of clothes can be a waste of money.
Many young people go to clothes shops every weekend and...
because it's fast fashion and cheap fashion.
They're buying a lot of clothes when they have enough clothes at home, but that's part of being young.
Do you think that people only waste money on shopping?
Well, I think that some families buy takeaway meals every weekend, which is fine, but...
They could save money and make them food at home themselves.
Yes, I think that a lot of people go to coffee shops as well.
And if you buy a coffee out every day, then that's about two pounds a day, which adds up.
But I think that if people are working and this is part of their social life, then it's...
fine, but if somebody is struggling to save money, then maybe they should write down all these cups of coffee that they're buying or small items that they're buying and see how much they're spending in one week.
This could easily be saved and put towards Christmas presents or birthday presents, I think.
And the final question is what...
are things that you do enjoy spending money.
I enjoy spending money on my hobbies, for example wool for knitting for materials for sewing.
I also like buying books and if I saw a very nice blanket in a shop I would be tempted to buy it.
So you have a
list of things that you would like to spend money on but you wouldn't really go out and have a coffee at a coffee shop.
No, I look at that £2 or £250 and think that I could buy some craft materials with that money and so I wouldn't buy a coffee.
If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe.
pressures on them because of investments and because of the lifestyle they need and work pressures.
Do you think that you would be happier if you had more money?
No, I don't think so.
I think I'm quite happy as I am.
At the moment, I have everything that I need and I'm quite happy with that.
Okay, and the next question is what does...
money doesn't grow on trees mean.
I think it means that there is a limit to how much money is available and that you have to work for your money it just doesn't appear from nowhere.
In what situation would you use this expression?
I don't think I've ever used this expression myself but I know that.
politicians have used it to say that there is a limit on how much they can spend and that money doesn't grow on trees or there isn't a money tree to explain to people that there isn't an endless supply of money.
I think some parents say to children as well.
Yes, I think so too, but I think
better to explain to children that you only have a certain amount of money.
If you say money doesn't grow on trees, it doesn't really mean much to children.
I think that parents use it to explain that you have to work for your money.
Yes, but I think an explanation would be clearer.
I think that's
why I've never used the expression.
Although other parents do use it.
What about the expression?
Do you think I'm made of money?
What does that mean?
I think that's quite a good expression.
If children are asking for the latest shoes or the latest video game and the parent would say, do you think I'm made of money?
It means that...
Do you think I have got a lot of money?
And I think children understand that because it's in a joking way Yes, I think you said it to me once Yes, I think you can get away with saying it as a joke even though you really mean it Yeah, and the next question is have you ever raised money or charity?
Yes, I've done that a few times.
In recent years we took part in a charity dog walk where local people gathered to walk their dogs by the sea and we all paid an amount and all the money raised were to dog and cat charities.
Why do you think it's important to raise money for charity?
I think that a lot.
charities do very good work and often they don't get a lot of money from the governments and they rely on ordinary people to help them to raise money.
What about pocket money?
Do you think that children should have pocket money?
Yes, I think it's a very good idea.
It teaches children the value of money so that if they have got some money and then...
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
Today I'm going to be talking about learning languages.
I'm going to be following some speaking questions that you might have in your speak next time and I'm going to answer these questions.
Question number one, how many foreign languages do you speak?
I know how to speak two foreign languages.
English is my mother tongue.
I'm a native speaker but I know how to speak Spanish and French too.
Question number two, when did you start learning your first foreign language?
I started to learn my first foreign language which is Spanish when I was young child because I used to live in Spain with my family.
I have spent a lot of years living in Spain so my level of Spanish is...
But I'm not sure whether I would recommend it as it is quite stressful when you don't know how to communicate with others in that language and you can't get your message across.
For me, the most difficult part about learning Spanish was learning how to use the subjunctive.
It is something that I need to brush up on, meaning that it is something that I need to revise where...
quite advanced.
Question number three, why do you enjoy learning languages?
I enjoy learning new languages because it is really interesting to discover other cultures through their languages.
It is also quite motivating because you can practice the language with other people and after some time you realise how much your skills have improved.
At the
start you can only say a few words, then a few sentences and then in the end you can hopefully have a conversation with someone about any topic.
That way when you visit a certain country you can talk with the people who are from there in their own language.
I think that they also appreciate your effort to learn their language.
Number 4.
What don't you like about learning languages?
I don't like the official language exams that you sometimes have to do to a credit your level in a particular language.
From my experience, it is quite stressful and sometimes you can't get to show off your language skills because the topics are quite limited.
Also,
Some of the themes of the listening exams are very difficult and there is not enough time to write down your answers while you listen.
This happened to me in my Spanish exam.
The listening exam was of a university professor talking about black holes and space.
It was so difficult even though I had spent years and years talking Spanish.
Question number five.
How many foreign languages do children in your country learn at school?
In England, high school students can only use and choose one foreign language which is normally either Spanish or French.
There are other languages that can be studied like German but it just depends on what the school can in our country and our country.
Number 6, do you think it's important to learn a foreign language?
I think that if you have the opportunity to learn a foreign language, you should go for it.
It is important to learn but not everyone can have access to this type of education.
Learning a foreign language has many benefits for your brain, such as improving your memory, enhancing the ability to multitask and sharpening.
the mind.
Also, it improves performance in other academic areas and enhances your employment opportunities so you become more competitive and have more career options to choose from.
In my case, I learned my foreign languages out of necessity as I moved to Spain when I was young, not knowing their language and I had to adapt.
to my new environment.
I went to a Spanish school and the only language that was spoken in all of the lessons, except the English lessons, was Spanish.
It was very difficult but I got by.
I slowly started to pick up a few words and in the end I could join the words to make sentences.
So a full immersion was the way the islands Spanish.
How is Christmas celebrated in your country in England?
Christmas is normally a big celebration in England.
People get together with their families and the main celebration day is on the 25th December which is actual Christmas day.
The day before Christmas day which is the 24th of December is called Christmas Eve.
and the day after Christmas Day, which is the 26th of December, is called Boxing Day.
What do people usually do on Christmas Eve?
Because the 24th of December is quite an important date in other countries.
But in England, it isn't so much of it.
Now, normally the shops close early and people finish work.
throughout year.
For example, something for my hobby, which is knitting, so if somebody bought me wool I'd be very happy.
But I also really love to receive chocolate or wine or perkins.
What would you like to receive at Christmas?
I wouldn't like to receive clothes such as socks.
or a jumper?
Why not?
Because often people don't know my style or the colours that I like and very often I don't need another jumper or a new pair of socks.
So I think it's wasted money.
What would you like to receive this year?
I think I would like to receive voucher too.
by books or magazines, then I can use it any time during the year.
Do you think that vouchers are a good present?
Because some people say that they're not very personal, are they?
But I think at the moment when people haven't got a lot of money, that it's a good decision to buy something useful.
Yeah, because if not, you might buy them a book.
that they don't like and they wouldn't use it.
Yes, I think is sensible option.
It doesn't look good under the Christmas tree but it's a very sensible idea in these times.
And finally, do you think that Christmas is too commercial nowadays?
Because for example the other day we went to a shop and...
It was in August, in the month of August, and we saw Christmas decorations.
What do you think about that?
Yes, I think that a lot of people feel pressure to celebrate Christmas in a certain way, but to buy a lot of presents for people.
And by advertising Christmas and having Christmas gifts in the shops at in August, the pressure builds.
on people and they feel that they have to buy presents for every family member to be perfect host and I've even seen Christmas plates and Christmas cushions in the shop and also bedding and it just makes Christmas too pressurized and commercial for people.
Yes, because even on TV.
when you see adverts at Christmas, there are so many presents under the Christmas tree.
I think it's quite unrealistic, especially for the people who can't afford it.
Yes, and you see Christmas movies on television, with the enormous Christmas tree and all the family dressed in the same pajamas and mountains of presents.
And it's just not realistic.
work for the day early and then they go home and really you have a normal evening.
At bedtime children normally hang up the stocking or a sack.
Ready for Father Christmas and they often leave a carrot for the rainders and maybe a glass of alcohol for Father Christmas.
I think that people are normally very excited on Christmas.
Christmas Eve, but there isn't a big event, is there?
There isn't a big dinner where all of the family gets together.
Traditionally now, the big celebration is on Christmas Day.
What do people normally do on Christmas Day, which is the 25th of December?
Well, normally the children wake up very early, for example at 5 o'clock, and they open their stockings.
which are full of presents, which might be at the end of their beds or hung up downstairs.
What do people usually do after they open their presents?
Well, it differs from family to family, but in my family we had breakfast and then everybody gets dressed and ready for the day and then we open the presents which are under the Christmas tree and...
And those presents are from family and friends.
So in your family, children had presents from Santa Claus and then presents from family and friends.
Yes, but I know that some families have all their presents under the Christmas tree.
Do you have a special dinner or a special lunch on Christmas Day?
Yes.
Christmas dinner is very important in most houses.
What do people normally have?
Well most families would have turkey with a lot of vegetables and then some people have peaks in blankets which are little sausages wrapped with bacon.
What do you normally do on Christmas day?
We normally open our presents in the...
morning, have breakfast, then we celebrate with the Christmas dinner and the afternoons are usually spent watching television, eating a lot of chocolate and relaxing.
What about boxing day?
Which is the day after Christmas day?
What do you normally do then?
We usually go to visit other family members who we haven't seen long Christmas day.
And then in the afternoon we sit and watch television as there's often football matches on television on Boxing Day.
And also some people watch films.
It's very popular to watch an old movie on Boxing Day afternoon.
Do you think it's important to buy presents at Christmas?
I think it's nice to buy presents for some special people.
But I...
don't think it's important.
I think that it's nice to buy presents for children, as they are always very excited about Christmas, but I don't think you need to buy a present for every family member and those people that you don't see very often.
What type of presents do you like to receive at Christmas?
I like to receive useful presents or things that I will use.
Christmas is my favourite time of year.
In the weeks leading up to it people are very excited and starting to pick out the perfect presents for their friends and family.
They run around all the shops in the city or town to find a lovely gift.
During the holiday season people put up...
fights, ornaments, decorations and most importantly Christmas trees.
In England people usually put their Christmas tree in the front window so that when people walk by or drive by they can see their Christmas tree.
I think it's a great idea because it brightens the neighborhood up when you are going for a walk in the winter.
with the people that they love.
The day after Christmas day is called Boxing Day and it's a day to ride down and to chill out on the sofa next to the fireplace and keep warm.
Children usually spend time playing with the gifts that they...
received for Christmas or watching Christmas films.
It's the last day of Christmas really for us.
It's a bank holiday so majority of people don't have to go to work.
There are a lot of football matches on that day so a lot of people stay home and watch them.
Some people might go for a walk.
the same as on Christmas day, quite a few people go for a walk on the 25th of December as well, after they have had their Christmas dinner.
I love these walks because everybody is happy and you can just feel the Christmas spirit.
When you walk by someone they will say Merry Christmas and it's just lovely when everyone is spreading.
the jawline like that.
The people who have travelled far for Christmas usually go home on Boxing Day so they might spend Christmas Eve Christmas Day with their families but go home on Boxing Day because on the 27th a lot of people go back to work.
Boxing Day is also known for its sales so you can get
a lot of good offers in the shops.
So just in case you didn't spend enough money at Christmas, you can always go shopping on box and there.
After Christmas the next event that people look for with do is new year's eve which is on 31st of December.
The Christmas lights are stayed switched on.
until the 12th night after Christmas, which is the 5th or the 6th of January.
That is when people take all of the decorations down and everything goes back to normal.
If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe.
I'll see you in the next video.
or when you're driving back from work.
People turn on Christmas music and sing along to the songs while they're decorating their houses or their gardens.
Christmas is a time about coming together and also giving gifts.
In England and in many other countries there is a tradition of Secret Santa.
You have to write down.
your name on a little piece of paper and we put it in a hat.
Then each person picks a name out of the hat and that is a person who they have to buy a present for.
People normally do this at work or among friends so that you don't have to buy a present for everyone.
They also set
price.
So you might have to buy a present for £10 or £20 so that some people don't spend more money than others.
On Christmas Eve families set up the special table for the feast and wait for Santa Claus to come on the night of the 24th of December.
They also leave out some biscuits and milk for a centre and some carrots for the raindex.
On Christmas morning children usually wake up early to see what Santa Claus has brought them.
He usually leaves the gifts in stockings or in a sack or maybe under the tree.
on your family's tradition.
Everyone gathers around the Christmas tree to see what presents he has brought.
People also hand out the presents that they have brought for their family members or friends.
Later on at lunchtime people dig in and enjoy the festive
meal together.
People usually eat turkey, gravy and vegetables on Christmas day and it's quite a big meal.
Families usually get together for this Christmas dinner and later on other family members or friends come round to visit.
After everyone has sat down and enjoyed the meal, people just hang out together, play games or watch a holiday movie.
The children usually enjoy the gifts that they have been given.
In the evening, there are some people who head out to churches to attend Christmas services.
is a time for gratitude and reflection.
So a lot of people look back on the year and appreciate the good moments that they have had with their friends and their family.
There are some people who enjoy the presents more, but there are others who love coming together and spending quality time.
Last week I went to a music festival.
As it is summer there are a lot of music festivals at the moment.
The weather is great, it is warm and it's a great time to enjoy live music outdoors.
I don't know if you have been to a music festival recently but...
but the new way of entering is by wearing a bracelet.
The bracelet has a code on it and this means that you don't need print off your tickets or have your tickets on your phone.
The last time that I went to a festival, which was about five years ago, I had to prove
After that performance I decided to go for a walk around the festival.
There were lots of food trucks and stores that sold merchandise.
merchandise are the hats, t-shirts and other accessories that they sell at a festival or a concert.
and they normally are of the artist that are performing at the festival.
In this case, I didn't buy any merchandise because a t-shirt was 40 pounds, which is quite a lot of money.
That is about half the price of the ticket of the festival.
There were lots of different activities going on at the festival.
the same time as the live music.
For example, there were stands where you could play bingo, stands where you could have your makeup or your hair done and things like that.
I didn't really do any of these activities because when I am at a music festival, I prefer to enjoy
the live music.
As I said before, the new system of bracelets as tickets was also great for paying when you were in the festival.
For example, if you wanted to buy a drink or some food or even a t-shirt at the merchandise store, you have...
to pay with your bracelet.
That means that you don't have to take cash to the festival.
There are machines where you can recharge your bracelet with money or you can also do it on the app.
You could even recharge it before you went to the festival.
So, not only did the bracelets reduce the cue at the start of the festival, but also during the festival as well, because it didn't take so long to buy food or drinks, as people didn't have to get their card out of their purse or take money out of their purses.
print my tickets off.
And it was a lot worse because the queues were very long as somebody had to check every single ticket.
However, last week when I went to the festival, I noticed that even though the queue was really long, we entered the festival in about...
15 minutes.
When we first entered everybody seemed really excited.
Some people were wearing glitter on their faces, other people were wearing funky hats and it looked like everybody had just come to have a great time.
I had gone to the festival to see...
one artist in particular.
So I decided to go straight to that stage.
There was one act before them, but I preferred to get there early to be at the front.
I had never seen this artist before, so I wanted to see them up close.
When the artist came on stage, everybody started singing and dancing.
The performances were amazing and it was great because the crowd was very excited to be there.
Also the line up, which is basically the list of the artists who are going to perform.
and a festival.
Contained artists of the same genre, they were all rock artists.
So that was good because all of the festival gurus, who are the people that went to the festival, all liked rock music.
This created a great...
atmosphere.
As I said before, I first saw an artist who I had never heard of before, so it was great to get to know that singer and since I went to the festival, I have been playing their music on Spotify and I really enjoyed it.
Of course, the artists that I went to the festival for was amazing.
However, they weren't one of the headliners of the festival.
Headliners are the artists that are at the top of the list in a festival.
They are normally written very big letters.
because they are the most famous.
Headliners usually perform for about one and a half hours, whereas the other artists only perform for one hour.
So it was shame that my favourite artist wasn't a headliner because they only performed for 15 minutes.
Video games are becoming more and more popular all around the world.
There are currently around 3 billion active video gamers on the planet.
Japan and the UK are the countries that have the highest percentage of players, as 58% of their population play video games.
These countries are followed by Sweden, South Korea and France.
At present, the video game market is worth around $197 billion and is expected to grow around 12% annually.
This industry is so important in the entertainment sector that it is bigger than Hollywood and the music industry combined.
Who would have thought?
Who do you think pay more videos?
games men or women.
Interestingly there are 1.7 billion male gamers and 1.3 billion female gamers.
So that means that men play more video games than women.
And in regard to age 80% of gamers are over 18 so only 20% of them are underage.
I was surprised when I read this statistic as I thought it would be a lot higher.
Children and teenagers always seem to say that their main hobby is playing video games, but maybe in reality they do not play as much as adults because they're parents of them.
The age group that most plays video games.
are 18 to 34 year olds, which represent 38% of gamers.
The people that play the least are over 65, followed by 55 to 64 year olds.
This means that older people are less likely to play video games, which doesn't come as a surprise.
How often do you see an older person playing?
of video game, not very often.
If you don't usually play this type of game, you may be wondering why so many people spend so much time playing.
The main reason why people play video games is that it relaxes them and helps them to unwind.
Gaming actually produces a risk of dopamine as this activity is fun and entertaining.
This hornow, which is often referred to as the happy hornow, makes people feel better.
Therefore, these games are used as a way to distract their minds from stress and anxiety that they may feel in their daily lives.
Half of gamers use these games to feel time when they are waiting or are on a break.
I'm sure that all of you have played a game on your f-
while you are waiting at the doctors, the dentists or an airport.
It makes time go faster and makes a way less frustrating.
Other motivations for many are to spend time alone, solve problems and to be comforted by something that is familiar to them.
With this information it is evident that video games offer an opportunity.
escape from reality and give people a break from their real lives.
Regarding the top game categories that are played, 63% of gamers in the US play casual games.
This is followed by action games and shooting games which are played by just over a third of gamers.
Now let's talk about the best selling video games of all.
time.
Which ones do you think are in the top three?
Minecraft is at the top of the list having sold 238 million.
In second place we have Grand Theft Auto 5, which has sold over 175 million units and in third place we have Tetris, which has sold around
Hello and welcome to another episode of elephant English podcasts.
Today we're going to be having a conversation with my mom about music.
So the first question is, do you like music?
Yes, I love music.
I like to have music playing in the house all over the time.
And who's your favourite artist at the minute?
Well, I like a lot of artists that at the moment my favourite is J.
Cooper.
He's a guitarist, a songwriter and he sings his own songs.
Have you ever learned to play musical instrument?
Well obviously I learned to play the recorder at school because all children do but then I didn't learn a new instrument until I was an adult when I started to play the ukulele.
Why did you start to play the ukulele?
I'm trying to learn.
over and over again, using YouTube.
And the final question is, is live music as popular now as it was 10 years ago?
Yes, I think it's more popular now than it was 10 years ago.
Because of the streaming that we mentioned before, people aren't buying so many albums or singles.
And so, artists and groups aren't earning so much money.
So, in this year...
there's more artists being on tour and there are more festivals now than ever before.
So I think that's a good thing that artists are having to sing live and play live and people enjoy their music more which might make them buy the album or download the albums in the end.
So in today's video we've talked about music.
If you have liked this video please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.
started selling ukulele.
He taught children how to play the ukulele in school.
So three members of my family bought ukuleles from him and we started to learn to learn.
What instrument do you think is best for children to learn?
I actually think the ukulele is very good for children to learn because it's not heavy, it's portable and there are a lot of videos online shown.
how to play simple tunes like jingle bells.
Yeah so ukulele is good for children to start on because then they can go on to play the guitar.
Yes because a ukulele only has four strings whereas a guitar has six.
So they get the concept from the ukulele but then come progress if they want to.
Do you think that music should be taught in schools?
I think that it's important to teach music in schools, but not necessarily history of music or theory of music, but I think that music appreciation should be taught to all children.
And for those who would like to learn instrument, then they should be given that opportunity.
I think that in general children should have an appreciation of music from different cultures too.
Because I'm...
My school, for example, when I was younger, we only learned how to play the recorder.
So it would have been good to learn how to play the drums or the guitar.
When I think that a lot of time is wasted in school learning to play the recorder and not all pupils are interested in it.
It's something that you only play at school.
You rarely see an adult playing a recorder in a band in a group.
In the next part, I...
I wanted to describe a type of music that you like a lot and you should say what type of music it is when you first started listening to it, how often you listen to it and explain why you like it so much.
I've always enjoyed pop music, any music that is in the top 40 at the moment.
My love of music started when I was about 9 years old when my sister used to listen to radio a lot.
up and since then I have listened to the top 40 nearly every week and you're very good at music quizzes I knew.
I would say that's your specialist topic.
If you had to do a quiz at something you would choose music wouldn't you?
Yes I'm very good at lyrics and remembering the year of a certain song because I've followed it so keenly over yes I link a song to a...
particular time in my life or an event.
And why do you like music so much?
Well I enjoy singing a lot too and so I've always enjoyed singing along to the radio and to my favourite songs.
So I think that the two things go hand in hand.
And how do most people listen to music these days?
I think that a lot of people listen to music on their phones and and by streaming songs.
on Spotify for example.
You can also listen to the radio wherever you are now because a lot of radio stations are online.
I think it's good as well because you don't actually have to pay for you.
So if you want to listen to music on YouTube for example, then you don't have to buy the groups or the band's album.
Yeah, that's true and if you have a favourite song at that moment, you can...
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcasts.
Today I'm going to be talking about what I do in the evenings.
I'm going to be following some speaking questions that you might have in your speaking exam and I'm going to answer these questions.
The first question is, what do you do in the evenings?
other evenings I usually relax because I come home from work in the late afternoon.
Some things I do to relax are what an episode of my favourite series, playing my cat or do some exercise.
I enjoy going for a short walk around my neighbourhood when the weather is nice so that I can
spend some time outdoors while doing a bit of exercise.
I sometimes need to go grocery shopping in the evening but I don't usually go to many different places in the evenings after work.
Question number two is, do you do the same thing every evening?
I usually do similar things every evening from...
Monday to Thursday because of work.
I have a routine that I normally follow every day.
However, my evenings are different at the weekend.
On Friday and Saturday evenings, I usually go out to do something different, like meeting my friends or going for a drink.
Question number three is do you...
spend your evenings with family or friends.
I only spend my evenings with friends at the weekend, but my family often comes to visit me in the evenings from Monday to Friday.
When my family comes to visit, it is an informal occasion, but when my friends visit, it is more of a special occasion.
This is what I prefer to spend time with friends only at a weekend.
Question number four is do you ever work in the evenings?
Yes, I sometimes work in the evenings.
When I have a lot of exams to correct, I have to do them after work.
I try to avoid marking activities and exams at home.
but sometimes there is just not enough time.
Question number five is, what is a popular activity that young people in your country do in the evening?
I think that a lot of young people in England like spending time at the gym or going for a run.
They enjoy these activities because it makes them feel.
refreshed after coming home from work.
Also, it is quite motivating to see how you improve every time you go for a run or go to the gym.
The last question is, what did you use to do in the evenings when you were a child?
When I was a child, I used to spend my evenings doing my...
homework, playing and looking after my pets.
I used to take about an hour to do my homework which I used to start at four o'clock.
After that I would play with my brother for a few hours.
Sometimes we played in the garden and other times we stayed inside playing Lego.
feed all of our pets and take our dogs for a walk.
This would take more than an hour because we had so many ants.
In today's video I've talked about what I do in the evenings.
If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel because I make a lot of these videos on different topics.
Thank you!
Formula 1 is an international motorsport series that is quite popular nowadays.
It is a championship in which there is a series of races which are called Gronbrie.
These Gronbrie are held all around the world on their...
The championship has actually been held every year since 1950.
The first race took place in 1950 in Silverstone in the United Kingdom.
Silverstone in the United Kingdom.
But the championship has changed a lot since then.
Before the actual race begins, there is a formation lack.
The formation lack is so that the drivers can warm up their tires and prepare for the race.
The formation lack is completed at a reduced
speed so they drive slower than in the actual race.
When the drivers have completed the formation lap, the cars have to go back to the grid in their positions.
There are some lights at the start and the race begins when all of the lights go out.
As you probably know, Formula 1 is not only about driving fastest, but it's also about strategy.
Throughout the race, the teams plan strategically.
Pit stops are an important part of their strategy.
In case you don't know what pit stops are.
It is when the driver enters the pit lane so that the team can change the tires, refuel or make some adjustments to the car.
It starts a very important because if you change the tires too early or too late
It can affect your position in the race.
If there is an incident or there are conditions that don't allow the race to continue as usual, there will be a safety car.
Then the safety car is deployed.
because must reduce their speed and maintain some distance behind it.
The safety car is very important for the safety of the drivers and the workers on track.
For example, if there has been an accident and they need to...
remove their car which has had an accident.
They will need to use a crane.
Depending on how dangerous it would be to continue the race, they might send out the safety car or there might be a red flag and all of the cars will need to go to their pit box.
After all of the laps have been completed, the first driver to cross the finish line will be the winner of the race.
The drivers who have come in first, second and third place are usually interviewed after the race.
And then they participate.
in a podium ceremony.
They are awarded trophies and champagne.
They usually spray the champagne on the other drivers as a celebration.
They also play the national anthem of the driver who came first and of the team.
So for example, if the Red Bull team comes from Austria, they will play the Austrian national anthem.
In my opinion, Formula One races are very exciting.
Like I said before, it's not only about the high speeds, there is also a lot of strategy involved.
However,
Nowadays, the cars are highly advanced machines and can reach an average speed of 370 km per hour.
That makes them some of the fastest racing cars in the world.
In fact, the fastest lap ever recorded.
It can get a little bit boring when it is always the same driver who wins.
At the moment, the staffen is winning almost all of their races, so it isn't as exciting because you can kind of predict who is going to win.
What about the new?
Do you enjoy Formula One?
in a Formula 1 race was set in 2018 or 2018 with an average speed of 263 km per hour.
This record was set by Raikon in Italy.
In case you have never watched.
Formula 1 race.
This is how they work.
The races are always held at weekends.
On Friday and Saturday, there are usually three practice sessions.
In these practice sessions, the drivers and teams test the circuit.
it and how the car is performing.
These practice sessions are important because it helps them gather information about the car and how it works on that specific circuit.
And that can help them to prepare for the qualifying and...
the race day.
The qualifying takes place on Saturday and the reason why they hold this race is to determine the starting grid or the race on Sunday.
Basically, it decides what position they are going to start and on the sun.
race.
It is important because it's not the same to start the race in first position or in tenth position.
In the qualifying there are three rounds, Q1, Q2 and Q3.
20 of the drivers participate in Q1, then it goes down to...
15 in Q2 and the final 10 participate in Q3.
The slowest drivers are eliminated after each round until they reach Q3 where only 10 drivers remain.
The best driver who drives the fastest secure hole
position which means that they start the race at the front.
The most important race typically takes place on Sunday.
The circuits are from 300 to 400 kilometers long so it usually takes a couple of hours.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcasts.
In today's video we're going to be talking about my hometown and I'm going to be reading out some questions about this topic and I'm going to answer them like you would in a speaking exam.
The first question is, where is your hometown?
Well my hometown is a little village in the middle of England.
in what they call the Midlands.
The next question is, do you like your hometown?
Yes, I find it really calming and relaxing, especially when I'm coming back to the village from the city where I live.
Life is so much calmer there.
I would say there are only 1,000 people living my hometown, and they all live in nice houses.
with beautiful gardens and flowers, so it's the total opposite of where I live in a flat in my seat.
The next question is, do you often visit your hometown?
I usually visit my hometown at the weekends when I have time, so that might be maybe 10 times a year.
Sometimes I spend...
And a week there in my summer holidays because it's just a nice place to stay.
I normally stay with my family at one of their houses so I don't stay there for a long time.
The next question is what is the oldest place in your hometown?
I would say that the oldest place, the oldest building is the church which is in the center.
There aren't many shops in my hometown but the ones that we have are next to the church.
So they are in the village centre as well.
There is a butcher, there is a bakery, a bank and one small supermarket.
Even though there aren't a lot of shops, you can always find what you need and if you need anything...
else you can go to a nearby city and that only takes 30 minutes.
The following question is how could your hometown be improved?
Well, the roads aren't very good in my hometown and it seems like this is a problem all over England so when I take my bike to my hometown to go cycling sometimes I can't because the
us so bad.
The next question is, has your hometown changed much since you were a child?
I would say that the main things that have changed about my hometown are the people that live there.
Nowadays there are a lot of younger people who have decided to leave the city and to move to the countryside to this small building.
So it's quite nice to see that the village will have a future and maybe one day I will go back there and live there as well.
The next question is, is there a good public transportation in your hometown?
The transportation in my hometown isn't the best.
There isn't a training but there are quite a lot of buses there go by.
So if you haven't got a car, you would go by bus to different places.
As I said before, there aren't a lot of shops in my hometown.
So I would say that almost all of the people that live in the village have a car because you need it.
To travel to work to the nearby city where most people work.
And the final question.
is, do you think your hometown is a good place to bring up children?
Yes, I think that it is a perfect place to bring up children because almost all of the houses have big gardens and children can have trampolines, swings or even climbing frames in their garden.
And I think that makes a lot of children happy.
The internet connection is also good in the village as well.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
Today we're going to be following some speaking questions about where I live, so we're going to be talking about my house and my city.
The first question is, do you live in a house or a flat?
At the moment I'm living in a flat because I live in a city and flats are a lot cheaper than...
houses.
Question number two, what is your flat like?
So my flat has two bedrooms, a small kitchen, a normal sized living room and a small bathroom.
One of the rooms is a bedroom, it has a bed in it and a wardrobe but I use the other room as an office so it has a desk and a chair.
moved house.
Yes, I have moved house a lot of times because I have lived in a lot of places and countries.
I think that when you move house in the same city then it is less stressful, but when you have to move abroad and you have a limited amount of things that you can take with you, it is a lot more stressful and you have to plan.
it very well.
The final question is what would you like to change about Ruth flat?
Well, I would like to live in a house actually, so there are a lot of things that I would change about my flat.
I would like to have an extra bedroom so that I can have a gym and I would like to have an extra wardrobe too.
store things because only one of my bedrooms has a wardrobe.
In today's video we have talked about where I live and what it is like living in a flat.
If you have liked this video, please press the thumbs up button and subscribe to my channel because I make a lot of videos similar to this one.
I have made some activities based on vocabulary.
so that I can use my computer in it.
Question number three, where do you spend most of your time at home?
I spend most of my time in the living room because it's the biggest room of the house and I really like it.
I have a sofa in there and and then I have my TV, some shelves for my books and
a dining table with or chairs.
Normally when I'm in the living room I watch TV or I'm on my laptop for spending time with my cat who enjoys spending time in the living room too because she has her toys and a bed in there.
Question number four, have you got a garden?
No, I don't have a garden because... my...
flat isn't a ground floor flat.
I would like to have a garden to have some flowers and to spend time outside but in a city it is very difficult to find a flat that hands a garden.
Question number bike.
Is your flat in the city centre or in the outskirts?
My flat is in the city centre.
I think that it's good to be in the centre of the city because everything is close to your house.
So I have supermarket, hairdressers, chemists, restaurants and cafes all near my house.
I think that you pay a little bit extra to be in the city centre, but it is worth it because you don't have to spend so much money on petrol.
Question number six, why is it good to have a house in the countryside?
I think that if you have a house in the countryside, it is very relaxing and quiet.
It's a totally different lifestyle to living in the city centre.
And I think that if you enjoy spending time in nature and having a garden with flowers and have a house in the countryside, it is very relaxing and quiet.
then this is the best place to live for you.
However, I think that when you are young and you want to spend time doing more cultural activities such as visiting museums or going to the gym or learning about the history of the city, then it is good to be in a city rather than in the countryside, in the middle of nowhere.
but I know that a lot of people really love this lifestyle and I think that in the future I would love to live in the countryside rather than in city.
Question number eight is it important to have a big kitchen and why?
I think that it would be nice to have a big kitchen but I don't think that it is necessary.
I think that the more space that you have and the more covered.
that you have in the kitchen, the more things you will have and I would prefer to be more of a minimalist in the kitchen because I think there are a lot of utensils and gadgets that you don't really use on a day to day basis.
So I think it's best to have the least objects possible in the kitchen.
The next question is, have you ever...
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
Today we're going to be talking about neighbours and my neighbourhood.
We're going to be following some speaking questions that you might have in your speaking exam and I'm going to answer these questions.
The first question is, do you like your neighbours?
Well, I do get on well with my neighbours.
We go.
have a close relationship like some people have with their neighbours but we do help each other out when we need help and we have a conversation when we see each other in the hallways but we're not exactly friends.
The next question is are neighbours usually close to each other in your country?
Yes, I would say that generally a...
froze so we didn't have water for about a week and it was quite good because all of the neighbours came together to find a solution to the problem and if we didn't have a good relationship with our neighbours then maybe we wouldn't have felt comfortable enough to go and ask them to come together and cooperate.
It's quite interesting really because in those types of situations.
you do get to know your neighbour's better.
When you're all working every day and going backwards and forwards to work, I think that you don't really stop and have a conversation, but when you have something in common, then it brings you together and I think that can be positive.
The next question is, what are the most common neighbour complaints in your area?
I would say that the most common complaint of people being...
at night and bang doors, letting their dogs bark at night or early in the morning and generally being inconsiderate.
I think that when you live in a flat especially you have to think about the other people because you're living so close to them and you're sharing walls so anything that you do allow me they will be able to hear it as well.
So...
is important not to do the vacuuming or driller wall or put your washing machine on a 3 o'clock in the morning because I'm sure that you wouldn't like others to do that either.
The final question is how should you keep your neighbours from complaining?
I would say that being polite and friendly is a good way to have a good relationship with your neighbour.
neighbours and even just greet them when you see them in the hallway or when you're both going in the lift together.
Also it's important to cooperate if there is a problem that affects all of you and not be that rude neighbour who refuses to help anybody else.
But the main thing is to be considerate and aware of the noise that you're making and
to react well if somebody does have a complaint.
So you should accept the complaint and try to do something about it rather than argue with the neighbour because you don't really know how many years you're going to have to live with them in the same building.
So you just have to be careful and avoid causing trouble.
So in today's video we've talked about my neighbours and
In England people are usually respectful towards their neighbours.
Obviously some people get on better with their neighbours than others, but from what I've seen neighbours usually watch out for each other and keep a lookout when one of the neighbours go on holiday for example just to check that their house is okay and usually they help each other if one of them needs help.
Sometimes there might be a bit of gossip when some neighbours talk about other neighbours and what they're up to, but I think that would happen anywhere.
It's always respectful, but I think that people like to know what is going on in their neighbourhood and who is living there.
The next question is, what is your neighbourhood like?
Well, my neighbourhood is basically lots of broth.
of flats.
There aren't many houses at all because it's in a city, but the good thing is that there isn't a lot of traffic as it isn't on the main road, so it's a lot less noisy in that aspect and it's quite calm compared to other areas of the city.
There are a lot of services as well, so we have a few shops, some restaurants and cafes.
So if you ever need anything or want to go out to eat then you don't have to go far.
As we all live in flats and we are very close together we have a lot of neighbours so I don't know all of my neighbours but I do know the ones that live on the same floor as me.
The next question is do you think your neighbourhood is a good place for children?
Well I would say that it is a safe place for children.
children, there are no particular safety concerns, you just have to have a bit of common sense like you would in any city.
There are quite a few children parks around the neighbourhood, but there aren't a lot of open spaces or gardens.
Plus the fact that as we all live in flats, people don't really have gardens and it would be nice for children to have...
bigger areas to go on their bikes or just play around.
So yeah, it is a good place safety wise but maybe you would choose another area if you want to spend more time outdoors and if you prefer to have a garden or if you prefer for there to be more parks.
The following question is how could your neighborhood be improved?
Well, like I just said...
I would create more open spaces for people to do exercise and just generally spend their free time.
So it would be nice to have an area where you can go and have a picnic or go cycling or running after work or at the weekends because we haven't really got that type of area.
The next one is, do you think it's important to have a good relationship with your neighbours?
I do think it is important to have a good relationship with your neighbours.
You don't have to be friends with them, but it is always nice to be respectful towards them and know that if they need any help they can come to you.
I remember one time when it was really snowing in R city.
It was snowing so much that all of the pipes, the water pipes,
In today's video we are going to talk about animals.
I am going to follow some speaking exam questions and I'm going to answer them.
The first question is, do you like animals?
Yes, I love animals.
I love both pets and wild animals.
The second question.
is what is your favourite animal?
My favourite animal is a whale.
I think that they are magnificent animals and when I watch videos of them in the wild I am always impressed.
They seem like gentle giants which means that they are enormous but they...
don't really hurt anyone.
The third question is what animals are there in your country?
Well, the wild animals that you most see in England are foxes and deer.
But we also have squirrels, otters, badgers and...
seals in the sea.
The farm animals that you most see in England are cows and sheep.
Although there are also quite a lot of horses, but people keep them as pets.
The next question is what is the cutest animal in the world?
I think that...
red pandas are the cutest animals in the world but if we're talking about pets only I would say that puppies, fluffy puppies are the cutest pets.
The next question is what animal best represents your character?
Well I have...
always says that if I were an animal I would like to be a sheep.
They always look so calm and the only thing that they do is eat and sleep so I think that it is a good animal to be.
Also in the winter they don't feel cold so it's a good
animal to be especially if you live in England where the winters are quite cold.
The next question is if animals could speak what do you think they would say to humans?
I think that it depends on the animal but I think that wild animals would be quite aggressive to us, humans and they would say leave us alone.
and don't invade our territory, I think that's what they would say.
And then I think that pets would be quite annoying if they could speak.
I think the dogs would be friendlier than cats.
Cats would be complaining all of the time and shouting at you.
Whereas dogs would be more positive as...
grateful.
I think that they would say thank you more, cats would just tell you what to do and give you orders.
And finally the last question is what animal do you least like?
The animal that I least like is actually an insect.
I hate cockroaches.
I don't mind spiders because there are a lot of spiders.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
Today I'm going to be doing a speaking practice about family, friends and hobbies to help you to practice for your speaking test and to improve your listening skills in English.
I'm going to ask some questions and then I'm going to answer them, like they do in speaking exams.
The first topic is about family.
The first question is, do you have any brothers or sisters?
I have two brothers and one sister.
I am the youngest because my brothers and sisters are older.
They are 33, 35 and 37.
Question number two, do you think it's important to spend time with family?
Yes, I think it's important to spend time with my family because they are the youngest I think it's important to spend time with my family because they are the youngest
very special to me.
We have a very good time when we are together and we share happy moments, but they also help me when I am sad or I have a problem.
Question number three, what do you do with your family?
When I spend time with my family, we normally play cards or board games like Monopoly or Cludo while we listen to music from the 80s.
also like to cook together and follow new recipes because it is one of our favorite hobbies.
When the weather is nice, we like to spend time in the garden watering the flowers or just sitting in the sun having a conversation.
The next topic is about friends.
Question number four.
How often do you see your friends?
I meet my friends once.
a week.
I meet my friends once a week.
I always meet them at the weekend because I never have time during the week.
I work from Monday to Friday so the best days to meet up are Saturdays and Sundays.
Question number five.
What do you like doing with your friends?
We normally hang out in a park or go to the country.
side to go hiking and afterwards we sometimes go to a cafe or a restaurant to have some lunch or dinner.
I don't normally go to the cinema or to the shopping centre with my friends because I prefer to spend time outside enjoying the nice weather.
If the weather is bad, we spend time at home and order takeaway food from a restaurant that is in the
my neighborhood.
The last topic is hobbies.
Question number six, what are your hobbies?
I love cooking, painting and doing exercise, but I think that cooking is my favourite hobby.
My favourite recipes to make are Asian recipes because they have a lot of flavour and they are delicious.
I have a lot of recipe books that I use.
to make them and I sometimes follow YouTube videos when I want to make something that is extra special.
Question number seven, what is your favourite sport?
My favourite sport is badminton.
I played badminton when I was younger and I think that it is very fun and competitive.
The problem is that there aren't any badminton lessons near my house so I
can't play anymore.
It is a shame because I really love it.
Question number 8.
What do you normally do at the weekend?
At the weekend I always like to relax because I work from Monday to Friday.
Sometimes I go to the countryside to go for a long walk along the river or in the mountains.
Other times when the weather is bad for example.
I stay in my city and visit different museums and exhibitions.
In the evenings at the weekend we usually order takeaway food like pizzas or burgers and we eat them while we are watching a series or a film.
In this video we have talked about family, friends and hobbies.
I hope that has been useful for you.
Hello and welcome to another episode of elephant English podcasts.
Today we're going to have a conversation with my mum about books.
The first question is, do you prefer to read books or magazines?
It depends on the day really.
If I know that I've got a lot of free time I like to read a book but if I only have a short period of free time.
then I would pick up a magazine and just read one or two pages.
So you would just flick through the pages of the magazine and only read one or two articles.
Yes, I'd flick through and find something I was interested in.
The next question is, what is your favorite subject to read about?
Well, normally I would choose a book that was a murder mystery or some kind of detective novel.
Even for older people, it's good company and if you're on a train journey or bus journey, you can easily read your book.
In your opinion, do people read as much nowadays as they did in the past?
No, because at some time, books were the main source of entertainment really.
Now, people have their phones, tablets, computers, television.
music so there were more forms of entertainment but as I said before there are people who love reading and those people would rather spend their time reading they're wasting their time watching television.
The next question is how do most people read books today in hard copy or on a tablet?
I think it's about 50-50.
At one point there was a trace for having a kid.
and reading books online.
But then a lot of people prefer the actual feel of a book and knowing how many pages are left and that you can take a book anywhere with you.
But then really you can take Kindle anywhere you go or an evening.
Yes, that's true but I think that people like to look at the cover of a book and to have the actual physical feel of a book.
That's what I mean.
Do you think the traditional books will be replaced by tablets in the future?
Maybe in the future.
I went to a bookshop the other day and I noticed that there were a lot fewer books than there used to be in this shop.
But then again, there are a lot of very big bookshops too.
So I think the trend at the moment is for nonfiction books like cookery books or self-help books.
rather than novels.
It seems like the bookshops are promoting those rather than the fiction novels.
And people wouldn't really download recipe books, is that what you're saying?
Yeah that's true.
People like to have recipe books that they can use in the kitchen.
Whereas when you're cooking and your fingers of flour on them or your fingers are dirty, you can't really use your tablet all.
And did your parents read to you when you were a child?
No, when I was a child my parents were very busy working and so I led to myself and I think that's where I developed my love of reading when I was about 9 or 10.
Why were they busy?
Because they owned a small shop and they both worked a lot of hours.
And did you use to read children's books or add-
books.
Well when I was about nine or ten I started with books that were by Inid Blighton who was a popular author for children and then in my teenage years I progressed to the murder mystery novel that I'm doing now.
The next question is would you give a book as a gift?
How many if I knew the person very well and I knew what type of books they liked because often
I recommend a book to a friend or to my husband and then when they start reading it they don't like it or they don't enjoy it as much as I do so it's very hard to buy a book somebody else and unless you know exactly what they like and another problem is that maybe you buy a book and they've already read that book so if they like a particular author and you've got to be careful when you
which book that you're going to buy from.
Yes, I think I would only buy the book for a person if it was a very new book on the market, so I know that they haven't got it.
The next question is, describe a book that you enjoyed reading.
You should say what the book was, what it was about, why you read it and explain what effect the book had on you.
So a book that I read recently is The First Day Murder Club by Richard Osman.
The author Richard Osman is often on British television as a presenter of quiz shows.
So the book has been publicised a lot and that's why I bought it.
Also the reviews that I think were very good.
It's about a group of older people who live in sheltered housing.
and one used to be a police woman, one was a detective and one was a nurse and so between them they tried to solve murders in their spare time.
The book was very entertaining, it was funny and kept you guessing who the murderer was and at the end of the book I was looking forward to buying the next instalment in the book because I think there was...
three in total.
It's not the most gripping book that I've read.
Other authors such as James Patterson are more experiencing writing thrillers but this was an easy book to read and I enjoyed it very much.
The next question is do people in your country like to read books?
I don't think there's so many people enjoy reading books these days.
I think
think that there's so much on television 24 hours a day that people don't think about reading books but I think those who do enjoy reading books are devoted to it and they prefer reading books to watching television or listening to music and do you think it's important for people to read books?
Yes I think it's very important for children to learn the enjoyment of reading aloud and
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
Today we're going to be talking about the advantages of using social media, which is a very common topic in B1 exams.
Nowadays millions of people around the world use social media.
It is used to communicate with other people, to share information and to create web content.
There are two.
forms of social media such as blogs, social networking sites, instant messaging, sites to share photos and videos and podcasts.
They are used so much that currently more than half of the world's population now uses social media.
As more than four billion people are active users.
One of the main benefits of
social media is that it is a great tool because you can connect with other people who are on the other side of the world.
You can send messages, photos or videos to them and they can receive them instantly.
You can use it to contact people that you already know, but you can also meet new people.
In addition, social media can be used for...
educational purposes, like this channel, for example.
You can learn new things on YouTube, TikTok and other apps if you look in the right places.
Not only can you learn languages, but also you can learn how to fix things, how to practice a certain sport or even how to cook a recipe.
From a business perspective, social media can be used from...
and advertise your company.
We've mentioned that half of the world is connected to social media, so that means that there are a lot of possible future consumers on them too.
They are often used to promote people's websites and you can press on a link on their social media profile that takes you to the web page that they are trying to advertise.
Also,
some forms of social media help people to form communities.
If you have a hobby, you can join a Facebook group or a Reddit page where you can share your experiences or creation with others.
You can follow people who inspire you too, even if they live in a different country or continent.
Creating a community that wouldn't have a hobby.
existed if social media didn't exist.
Finally, another benefit of using social media is that you can reach very large audiences.
If you want to spread a powerful and important message, it is easier to be seen or noticed.
When someone retweets reposts or forwards your message, it can reach thousands of users.
This can be positive if your message is aimed at helping other people or fighting for a change.
So today we have talked about the benefits of using social media.
I will be making another video which will be about the disadvantages of using social media.
If you have enjoyed this please like this video and subscribe to my channel.
Hello and welcome to another episode of elephant English podcast.
Today we're going to be talking about the disadvantages of using social media, which is a common topic in B1 exams.
In a previous video we talked about the advantages of using social media, but this one we're going to be talking about the drawbacks.
In other words, the bad things about using social
We had said before that more than half of the world's population is now using social media.
The fact that more than 4 billion people are active users on the same platforms has its downsides.
Firstly, one of the most obvious disadvantages of using social media is that it reduces face-to-face communication.
As it often is used as a substitute for
but it is impossible for them to control it all.
I'm sure that you have all seen a post that definitely should not have been on social media but it was there for everyone to see.
Finally, as everyone knows, social media can be addictive.
An increasing number of people can't stop consuming the content on these platforms and are constantly posting...
or looking at photos or videos on these sites.
You probably know a lot of people who don't stop looking at their phone when you meet up with them in person.
This makes people waste a lot of time, even if they're not actually addicted, and it can become a big distraction in their lives.
Looking too much time on social media can cause health issues and sleep in it.
problems.
If you spend hours sitting down or laying down, consuming this content, you start having a sedentary lifestyle and this has many side effects itself.
So today we have talked about the disadvantages of using social media.
If you haven't seen it, please go and listen to the advantages of using social media.
face-to-face interactions.
This means that people might stop meeting up in person like they would have done in the past and talk online instead, and people end up chatting online more than face-to-face.
The lack of this type of more natural communication has many drawbacks, as people might stop knowing how to have face-to-face conversation.
and will suffer from mental complications that are associated with this problem.
As you are only chatting with someone through a screen and there is no physical contact, people can become very lonely and can even become depressed.
Imagine that you no longer meet up with your friends because they only text you.
You wouldn't be able to have such intimate contact.
conversation or even hug them.
Another aspect about social media is cyberbullying, which is a type of bullying that happens on social media.
Because there is no face-to-face interaction, you can use social media anonymously, which means that nobody knows who you really are.
You can create an account on social media platforms and nobody will check your identity.
This makes it easier to bully someone through social media as nobody will find out that it is you who is writing horrible comments or threatening someone.
I think that we even see this on YouTube when users make negative comments that I'm sure that they wouldn't say if we knew who they really were.
hacking is an important disadvantage of using social media.
When people use these blackboards they normally share photos, videos and other personal information.
If a hacker can access this information they can threaten the user, demanding them to pay them or to do a certain thing that they want them to do.
The user will actively.
feel threatened and trapped as they don't want to be exposed and for all of their followers to see their personal information.
The fact that hackers can take and publish any information for everyone to see is one of the most important drawbacks of social media from my point of view.
As we had mentioned when we talked about the advantages of using social media
the content that you can upload can spread very quickly.
This can be negative if it is content that should not be shared because the owner has not given their permission or if it is something that is humiliating, which we could consider a cyberbullying or if it is fake news.
So a major disadvantage is that there are not enough filters.
on social media platforms.
People can share posts without permission and they can also create posts with false information, especially related to politics and the content has not been verified.
That means that we don't know if it is real or if it is fake.
I know that there are centers where they filter the content that is published online.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be talking about technology and we're going to be following some speaking exam questions so that you can practice for your speaking exam and also you can improve your listening skills.
So the first question is talk about how technology has changed in your lifetime.
I'm quite young, I'm less than 30 years old, so at first you might think well not a lot has changed over the past 30 years, but if we think about technology it has.
Even when I was younger, mobile phones were used just to send text messages and to make normal phone calls, but nowadays you could use your mobile phone to download any type of app.
studying so there are different gates and apps that are related to geography and other ones that are related to learning English and there are flashcards and different ways to study so that it doesn't just feel like you're studying from a book which can be quite boring really.
The next question is what do you use the internet for?
Well apart from work I mostly use...
the internet for my podcasts because I upload them onto YouTube.
But in my free time, I use the internet to look up recipes online, to watch videos and some blogs that I like to watch about life in the UK.
And anything that pops up, so if I want to know a random piece of information, then I would look it up like...
example the other day I looked at how many pigeons are there in the world.
Some things like that that aren't really necessary to know but they're quite interesting.
The next question is do you ever listen to the radio or is it now obsolete?
I do listen to the radio, I listen to the radio on my way to work in the morning and on my way back home as well.
I think that...
it is good to listen to in the car because you don't have to start choosing what song you want to listen to and because you're so tired at that time it's just easier to turn the radio on and listen to the songs that are on there.
The final question is have you ever spent a lot of money on useless gadgets?
No I haven't ever spent a lot of money on useless gadgets.
it.
When I buy it, I like to think about what I'm going to use it for before I buy it because if not, it's going to be a waste of money.
One tip that somebody gave me was that if you're planning on buying something and you don't know if you should buy it or not, then you should wait one month and if after that month you still want to buy it then you should.
But that is a good way to avoid impulse purchases.
You can do online banking on your phone, you can control the amount of steps that you have done on your daily run and you can even upload videos and share it with everybody on the internet.
So I think that this has been one of the biggest changes in technology in my lifetime.
The second question is what is your favorite piece of technology you own?
Well, my favourite piece of technology that I own is my iPad.
Normally, I wouldn't really have an iPad because when you go and buy a tablet and you see the price difference between an Apple product and say a Samsung product, then you decide to buy the cheaper one because it seems like a lot of money to pay 600 Euros or 600 pounds on an iPad.
BAM!
But I won my iPad in a competition and I really like it.
I think the sound quality is really good and the screen is very clear and I use it a lot more than I thought I would.
I had never had a tablet before and I didn't really know what you use it for because if you have a mobile phone and you have a laptop you think that you don't really need a tablet
If you're going to watch a video on the sofa, then it's much more comfortable to use your iPad or your tablet.
The next question is, what do you think will be the next biggest technological advance?
I think the next biggest technological advance might be printers.
I hope it is printers as well because every time I use a printer there is a problem.
with it, even if it's an expensive printer.
So I think that in the future they might be able to design smaller printers with high quality and they are straightforward to use.
The next question is, are you fond of buying gadgets?
No, I'm not fond of buying gadgets and I don't really enjoy the process of buying gadgets because I think if you don't understand technology.
and electronics, then it's very difficult to compare the products and decide which one is the best.
The fifth question is, are you into playing computer games?
I'm not really into playing computer games, I enjoy playing a game on my phone while I'm waiting at the doctors for example, but I don't have a gaming PC or anything like that.
Do have a wee console that is quite old, but I think it's quite fun when your family or your friends come to visit and you play for half an hour, but I don't enjoy playing computer games on my own in my bedroom, for example.
The next one is, do you use the internet much?
Yes, I use the internet every day.
So, use my computer.
you to work every day and I use it at home too.
The next one is, is the internet a useful tool for studying?
Yes, I think it's one of the best tools for studying because you can find a lot of websites with a lot of information.
You can use YouTube to learn as well.
There are also a lot of apps to practice the content that you are seeing.
Welcome to the first episode of Edifinal English Podcast.
Today we're going to be talking about binge watching.
According to the Oxford Language Addictionary, binge watching can be defined as the practice of watching multiple episodes of a television program in rapid succession, typically by means of DVDs or digital stream.
In other words, binge watching is when you...
watch a lot of episodes in a row on a platform like HBO or Netflix in one sitting without getting up to do anything else.
This year I've been to watch the and higher season of Peaky Blinders and Bridgerton in the winter and when I was ill, but it isn't something that I normally do because it takes up a lot of time.
It's getting quite common though and you've probably heard your friends or family.
saying they watched a whole season of series in a matter of days or weeks.
So today we're going to talk about whether binge watching is bad for you or not.
On the one hand, binge watching series can help us in stress and escape reality for a few hours.
When we come back from work or school, the only thing that we normally want to do is relax and relieve us pressure that we're feeling.
and binge watching series satisfied that need because of the dopamine that is released in our brain when we're watching our favourite series.
Also we create bonds with the characters that we watch on TV they become all my friends of ours as we watch them so much and so much of what happens in their lives as we enjoy this bond we don't want to stop watching
and this makes us binge watch even more.
It's also true that people seem to enjoy this series more when they binge watch them.
Sometimes the storylines are so complex or there are so many characters that is just easier to watch several episodes in a row.
I don't know if it happens to you, but often when I'm watching TV with Adverse, I can't even remember what was I was watching after the seven minutes of Adverse, I'm finished.
So imagine waiting one or two days or even a week between the episode.
I think that you wouldn't remember what was happening.
Finally, one of the most important reasons that I think people like binge watching is because they want to finish the series before anybody tells them spoiler about what happens at the end.
This has happened to me before when I have overheard the conversation.
or when I have read a comment that someone has put on social media, it's a shame when you discover the ending of the story before you've actually finished watching it yourself.
On the other hand, when you binge watch a show, it feels like you are wasting more time than if you watch the episode separately over a longer period of time.
Watching by their episodes in one sitting can't be good for your health.
deeper for obvious reasons.
It is true though that streaming platforms like Netflix want you to consume as much as possible.
When you finish watching an episode, a new one starts automatically after 15 seconds if you don't press pause.
So cliff hangers, which can be defined as a dramatic and exciting ending to an episode of series, leaving the audience in suspense.
and anxious not to miss the next episode, they don't help either.
When you don't know what will happen in the next episode and you're too excited or curious to wait until the following day, you normally start to watch the next episode to see what happens.
So today we have just seen the advantages and disadvantages of binge watching.
In my opinion, all things in moderation is the best principle.
to follow in this case.
It is fine to binge watch a series on a rainy day when you're feeling ill or you have nothing best to do, but I do think that you shouldn't take over your life.
But what do you think?
Do you think that binge watching is bad for you or not?
And do you often binge watch the series?
So please leave the comments below about what do you think about the topic.
I have also created activities based on...
In today's video we are going to talk about transport.
The first question is, what transport do you usually use?
I usually use my car to go to work.
It is very far so I can't ride my bike to work and it rains often.
England, so it's dangerous to use a motorbike.
How often do you use public transport?
I use public transport when I go on holiday or when I visit a city in England.
I live in the countryside in England.
So...
There are some British car brands that you don't see often, for example Bentley Aston Martin or Jaguar because they are very expensive, but you often see mini and Landdrovers.
What do you think is the safest kind of...
transport and why?
Well, people always say that planes are the safest kind of transport.
There are thousands of flights every day around the world and there are not many accidents.
So this is a reason why I think it's the safest kind of transport.
transport.
Although when I'm travelling on a plane, I don't feel like it is.
I get quite nervous and a little bit scared when the plane takes off.
I think this is quite common.
There are a lot of people who are scared of flying but not a lot of people.
people who are scared of getting in a car or in a taxi or on a train.
So it's not just me.
Is petrol expensive where you live?
Yes, petrol is quite expensive where I live.
At the moment the petrol costs £1.57.
per litre.
That's 179 in euros.
How can we use less petrol?
Well, I think that it's difficult to use less petrol if you have to go to work.
If you work from home, then obviously, you don't use so much.
But if you have to go to work and you don't have the option of using public transport, then it's quite hard.
If you live in a city and you can use the underground or a train or a bus, then it's easier.
There are more and more electric cars on the road as well, so they use less petrol, but the problem is that they are very expensive.
So the people that don't have enough money to buy an electric car can't reduce the amount of petrol that's...
they use.
For example, in my case, I live in the countryside and I have to drive to work, but electric cars are too expensive for me to buy.
Have you ever been on a boat?
Yes, I have been on small boats and on ferries, but
I have never been on a cruise ship.
I would love to go on holiday on a cruise because you can visit different countries and also you can do many fun things on the ship.
Like swimming in the pool, watching shows in the evenings.
different types of sports and just relaxing.
I like to watch videos of cruise ships on YouTube because the new modern cruise ships are amazing.
They have so many things to do and I don't know if you would have time to do all of the things that they offer.
there aren't a lot of buses or trains and of course there isn't an underground.
How often do you take a taxi?
I take a taxi when I go on holiday.
I live in the countryside so when I need to go to the...
airport I have to take a taxi.
It normally costs about 60 pounds.
It's very expensive but it's cheaper than parking my car at the airport especially if I go on holiday for two weeks.
I don't like to take
a taxi because it's very expensive.
So if I can, I ask my family or my friends to take me to the airport.
What is your favourite form of transport and why?
My favourite form of transport is a train.
You can travel short and long distances on a train and it's very comfortable.
When you go on an airplane you need to go to the airport, go through security and it's more stressful.
But on a train the journey is comfortable, you don't have to prepare for the travel so you can travel short and long distances on a train and it's more stressful.
and you can travel long distances quite quickly.
For example, I can travel to London by train and it takes about two or three hours.
Have you ever ridden a motorcycle or motorbike?
No, I haven't.
I don't think.
that I would like to ride a motorbike.
I think that cars are safer and I am scared of falling off the motorbike.
Have you ever ridden a horse or a camel?
I have ridden a camel when I was on holiday, not in England.
But I have ridden a horse in England.
There are quite a lot of horses in this country and a lot of horse riding schools.
But it is quite expensive to ride a horse.
So I don't do it very often.
What makes a car?
are popular in your country.
I think that the most popular brands are Audi, BMW, Ford, Mini Mercedes Land Rover, but you also see Honda Tesla Jaguar Nissan.
Hello, welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
In today's video we're going to be following some speaking exam questions about clothing and fashion and I'm going to be answering these questions so that it can help you practice for your speaking exam.
The first question is, do you like shoes?
No, I'm not really keen.
shoes.
When I have to buy a pair of shoes then I do but it's not something that I get excited about buying.
The next question is how often do you buy shoes?
Well I don't really buy shoes often because my favourite type of shoes are Doc Martins.
They're military style boots and they're known for being.
to work and it makes you feel special.
The next question is what do you think the clothes we wear say about us?
Well I think that the clothes that we wear reflect our personality.
I was having a conversation about this with my mum the other day because she was saying that back in the 80s if you liked a certain type of music then you would wear a certain type of
clothing.
So in the playground, a school for example, you would know what type of music a group of children listen to because of the clothes that they were wearing and my mum was saying that it doesn't really happen nowadays.
I think that it doesn't happen so much but you still have groups of teenagers who have more of a gothic style and others was also going to be fair and you had som things, it was playing and your
pastel colors but it is true that we don't really see that many different styles as before.
I still think that it does reflect your personality a little bit because some people wear more informal clothing whereas others wear more formal clothing and for jewelry and things like that.
You mustn't judge anybody by the clothes that they're wearing but it is true.
that clothes do reflect a little bit of our present.
The next question is, do you think that brand names are very important for clothes sales?
Yes, I do.
At the moment, I would say that the most popular brands are Nike and Adidas.
At least for young people.
I think that especially with T.
teenagers when they see that their friends are wearing a particular brand then they are going to copy their friends because they feel like they might be left out if they don't wear it especially now with social media.
It seems their fashions spread quite quickly because you can see what the influences are wearing.
and suddenly everybody is wearing what they are.
And this is good for brands really because they can sponsor the influencers on Instagram or YouTube or TikTok and then all of the teenagers or young people are going to copy what they're wearing.
So this is why I think that brand names are very important for clothes sake.
The next question is, why do some people like to go clothes shopping with friends?
I think that when you're young, you like to go clothes shopping with friends because normally you have quite a similar style to them.
Your parents normally drop you off at the shopping centre and you spend two hours just looking around the shop.
go for an ice cream or go to the cinema.
So I think it's just a fun thing to do on a Friday evening or Saturday evening with friends because at that age, majority of people like doing that.
So it's just something to do.
Especially when you're at that age because everybody seems to be doing the same thing and when you go to the shopping centre at least in England.
you see people from your school or from your class and it's a social event.
The next question is how do you think fashion will change in the future?
I'm not really sure how fashion will change in the future.
If you think about it, fashion repeats itself.
Sometimes I see a nice blouse or some nice trousers and say to my mum,
look at this new style and she says, no, that isn't a new style.
I used to wear that when I was 25, for example.
So what might happen is that we just continue reusing the same styles but with just small variations.
Really, if you think about it, it would be good if fashion doesn't change much, especially if we think about fashion.
quite long lasting so that means that I don't have to buy a pair of boots every year.
The ones that I have at the minute have lasted me five years so that's the reason why I don't buy boots often and when it comes to sandals and some issues I don't really use them that much so they don't wear down quickly so I might have to buy them every two years.
protecting the planet because when there are more fashion trends, then people tend to buy those fashion items and they're only in fashion for about a year or two.
So when that trend is finished, then they have to buy new clothing and that isn't good for the planet at all.
So maybe fashion will become more timeless and that way we wouldn't have to keep
mind so many clothes.
Although when I think about it I don't think that will happen because then the company wouldn't sell so many clothes.
So in today's video we have talked about clothing and fashion.
If you have enjoyed this video please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel because I make a lot of these videos about different topics.
Thank you very much and I'll see you in the next video.
The next question is, do you prefer comfortable or good looking shoes?
I prefer wearing comfortable shoes because I'm on my feet most of the day and I don't really like wearing high heels and those types of shoes.
I think that they're really uncomfortable and it's not worth it.
Especially because you wear high heels.
when you're going to a vent like a wedding.
And you have to walk around a lot and spend a lot of time standing up and when you get home, your feet really hurt.
The next question is, have you ever bought shoes online?
Yes, I have bought shoes online, but I knew what shoes I used to get for that specific brand.
I wouldn't really recommend buying shoes.
shoes online if you have never bought a pair of shoes of that brand but if you have already had three pairs of the similar type of shoe then it's not a big deal to buy them online because you know what your shoe size is going to be.
Also if you do have any problems then you can always send the shoes back.
I have never had to do that but I know that some of my
friends have done and they haven't had any issues with it at all.
In the next part I have to describe a dress or shirt that I wore for a special occasion.
I have to mention what it is like when and where I bought it, what special occasion I wore it for and I have to explain how it makes you feel wearing it.
Well one
One of the nicest outfits that I have ever worn was a baby pink dress that I wore to a wedding.
It was quite a simple pink dress but it came with a very nice silver belt and it looked really nice on.
I wore some silver jewelry on that day as well so it went with the belt and it looked really pretty.
I bought it at a small shop in my city.
It is one of those shops where you walk in and there's only one of each style and colour.
So it's quite good because you know that when you're going to go to the wedding there isn't going to be someone with the same dress as you.
Well they might have bought it in another shop but it will be very unlucky if that happens.
I didn't want to go to the wedding and see that somebody was wearing the exact same dress because it's a bit awkward for you and for them and it looks quite funny in the photos.
When I was wearing that dress I felt quite pretty and special.
It's nice when you go to a wedding and you dress up and put makeup on because you're not wearing the same clothes that you do every day when you go.
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
Today we're going to be reading an original story that is called the Old Lady and the Geats.
Many years ago there was an Old Lady who loved animals.
Every morning she put on her coat and hat and walked to the park.
It took about 10 minutes to walk there without rushing.
Before she...
She left her house, she always took two sizes of bread from her ladder and placed them in a plastic bag.
Her walk took her past rows of terrace houses, and all of them had different coloured front doors and pretty gardens with flowers and plants.
On this particular day, a Wednesday in June, it was sunny but not too hot.
The old lady set off as normal.
She was looking...
forward to seeing their wildlife in the park.
When she arrived at the park she looked to see if anyone was sat on her favourite bench.
It was a nice wooden bench next to the duck pond.
Well, it was known as a duck pond but these days there weren't many ducks swimming around there.
The old lady was lucky because the bench was empty.
She sat down and she took out her bag of bread.
As soon as she heard
opened the bag of bread, she heard a noise.
She couldn't think what it was.
She looked at the duck pond and saw a big group of Canada geese swimming towards her.
Oh she cried and quickly put the bag of bread back into her shopping bag.
The geese were swimming faster now and making a honking noise.
Hark, hark, hark.
The old lady got up from the bench and walked away quickly from the water z.
When the old lady got home she reflected on what had happened.
Silly me, she said to herself.
I ran away from Geese, Silly old woman.
The next day she put on her coat and hat again and she set off for the park with a big bag of bread in her hand.
She walked past the row of houses with the brightly coloured doors and stopped to watch the bees and butterflies.
in the gardens.
The old lady settled down on the bench and started to break up the bread in the bag.
A tremendous noise came from across the pond as hundreds of geese that had been sat on the grass suddenly entered the water and started honking loudly at each other.
The old lady was startled, but was determined to stay on the bench.
As the geese approached you of every one.
bread into the water.
Some geese ate the bread quickly, but others continued to swim towards the edge of the pond where the old lady was sat.
They climbed out of the water, clumsily, and plodded toward her.
Stay calm, stay calm, she said to herself, but inside she felt shaking and nervous.
The big geese approached the old lady, expecting to be fed.
She broke off a large piece of bread and...
hand fed the first goose, then another and another and another.
She found it exciting and was disappointed when the bat was empty.
She walked away from the newly named goose pond feeling brave and happy.
The following day, the old lady got ready for the walk as usual, but she felt different, she felt confident.
As she walked past the houses and gardens, she said good morning to everyone.
one lady of a similar age asked her where she was going.
I'm going to the park to feed the geese.
I go every day," she said.
"'Can I join you?'
asked the other lady.
"'Yes, come with me now and bring some bread.
If you can spare it,' she replied.
The two ladies walked to the park and sat on the bench.
The geese crowded around them and both ladies laughed as the geese tried to get the geese.
possible to get the most food.
The ladies had so much fun together and got along so well that they started to meet up every day.
Weeks later the old lady looked back on that day.
I should never have been scared of those canadages at all.
You won't get far in life by being afraid of the unknown she thought.
I will try to remember that in the future.
So today...
Hello and welcome to another episode of Elephant English Podcast.
Today I'm going to be talking about my childhood.
I'm going to be following some speaking questions that you might have in your speaking exam and I'm going to answer these questions.
Question number one, did you enjoy your childhood?
Yes, I enjoyed my childhood a lot.
I have got a lot of very handy.
memories of moments that I shared with my family and my friends.
Question number two, what is your first memory of your childhood?
My first memory of my childhood is coming down the stairs in my family home in England on Christmas morning.
I remember that Santa Claus had come and brought me a doll's pram which is a toy.
that you can sit your toy dolls in and push around.
I was very happy because it was something that I had asked for for Christmas.
I kept that doll's pram for a lot of years until one day when I had grown up when I gave it to a little girl so that she could enjoy playing with it.
Question number three.
Did you have a lot of friends when you were a child?
Yes, I had a lot of friends when I was a child.
I didn't have a group of friends like some people do, but I had a lot of individual friends that didn't know each other.
Also, as my mum looked after a lot of children, because she was a child-munder.
Lots of children were always at...
our house and in the end they became friends of ours.
Question number four, what did you enjoy doing as a child?
When I was younger I loved to play with Lego, all of my brothers and sisters loved to play with it too.
We created an enormous Lego city that took up all of the space in one of our houses.
of our bedrooms.
All of the Lego people had their houses, their jobs, their bank accounts, their friends and their enemies.
Whenever we got any money for our birthdays or at Christmas, we always used to spend it on Lego.
We had so many sets, lots of electric trains and airport and three planes.
a football stadium, a beach, a police station, a fire station, everything.
We still have all of their legos because we love it so much.
Question number five, do you think that it is better for children to grow up in the city or in the countryside?
I grew up in the countryside and I loved it, so from my
of you, it is better for children to grow up in the countryside.
The lifestyle is more relapse and children have more space to play.
They can even spend time in the fields and play football with their friends or go for a bike ride.
I think it's harder to do that in the city because there is more traffic, more people.
and less space.
I think that people who live in the city are more aware of the dangers of children playing or spending time in the streets on their own.
In the countryside, parents are generally more relaxed and let their children go out on their own.
In today's video I've talked...
