SEGMENT 1:
Summary: Hello and welcome to the elephant English podcast. This week, we're talking about the history of elephant language. We'll also be looking at the development of the language in recent years.

SEGMENT 2:
Summary: In today's video we're going to be looking at 10 idioms and expressions related to transport. We'll also look at some of the most common transport-related expressions.

SEGMENT 3:
Summary: We should all protest against the cost of living crisis. Rock the boat means to cause trouble or an unpleasant situation. In the same boat which means in the same difficult situation.

SEGMENT 4:
Summary: "Don't mention that topic in front of her. We don't want to rock the boat," he says of his wife. "She's not going to like it," he adds.

SEGMENT 5:
Summary: Driver the wall. 

SEGMENT 6:
Summary: Which means to annoy someone. 

SEGMENT 7:
Summary: He always leaves the toilet seat up. 

SEGMENT 8:
Summary: It drives me up the wall. 

SEGMENT 9:
Summary: Hit the road. 

SEGMENT 10:
Summary: Which means to begin a journey. 

SEGMENT 11:
Summary: Hit the road. 

SEGMENT 12:
Summary: If we leave now, we should get there. 

SEGMENT 13:
Summary: 6pm. 

SEGMENT 14:
Summary: This is my proposal, it's my way or the highway. My way means to accept the way I want it or leave. This is my idea of how I want the world to be.

SEGMENT 15:
Summary: Sail through, which means to do something easily without any difficulties. Sail through is a word used to refer to something that is easy to do.

SEGMENT 16:
Summary: "I thought the exam was going to be difficult, but I sailed through it. I thought it would be hard, but it wasn't," he said.

SEGMENT 17:
Summary: Cross that bridge when you come to it, which means to deal with something when it actually becomes a problem and not now when it's not really a problem. I will have to find a new place to live in two years' time, but I'll cross that Bridge when I come to It. Come upon the bandwagon, which is to join an activity that has become very popular. For example, when bean vegan became popular, shops

SEGMENT 18:
Summary: "That train has left the station, which means that that opportunity has already passed," he says. "It's time to move on," he adds.

SEGMENT 19:
Summary: "You can't ask to get back together after three months. You can't," he said. "You can only ask to be together for a few weeks at a time"

SEGMENT 20:
Summary: That train has left the station. 

SEGMENT 21:
Summary: Today we are going to see ten happiness idioms and expressions. Hello, today we are Going to See Ten Happiness idioms And Expressions. Today we are looking at ten happiness expressions.

SEGMENT 22:
Summary: On cloud nine, which means extremely happy. For example, he was on cloud nine when he found out that he had passed his university exams.

SEGMENT 23:
Summary: Have a... 

SEGMENT 24:
Summary:  whale of a time, which means to have a great time or a lot of fun. For example, I went on holiday to France with my friends from university and we had a whale of an time.

SEGMENT 25:
Summary: "I feel on top of the world, which means to feel very happy. For example, I feel...  I feel ... very happy," he says.

SEGMENT 26:
Summary: on top of the world. 

SEGMENT 27:
Summary: "I have a new job and my salary has almost doubled. I'm very happy," she says. "I'm very proud of what I've done," she adds.

SEGMENT 28:
Summary: Over the moon, which also means very happy. For example, her mom was over the moon when she announced that she was pregnant. 

SEGMENT 29:
Summary: In 7th Heaven. 

SEGMENT 30:
Summary: which also means very happy. 

SEGMENT 31:
Summary: "They have been in seven heaven since. For example, they have been touring the world for three months and they've been in six heaven since," he said.

SEGMENT 32:
Summary: Buzzling, which means very excited. 

SEGMENT 33:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 34:
Summary: his wedding and I was buzzing. 

SEGMENT 35:
Summary: The baby is as happy as Larry. For example, I gave the baby a toy and he played with it for an hour. Happy as Larry which means extremely happy.

SEGMENT 36:
Summary: Be thrilled to bits which means to be extremely pleased. For example, I can a surprise birthday party for my friend and she was thrilled tobits.

SEGMENT 37:
Summary: Get a kick out of something, which means to enjoy something. For example, people get a kickout of playing video games and could play them all the time.

SEGMENT 38:
Summary: Make someone's day which means to make someone happy. For example my work colleague said that I looked great in my new dress and it made my day.

SEGMENT 39:
Summary: If you have enjoyed this video please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel. I'll see you in the next video.

SEGMENT 40:
Summary: Elephant English Podcast looks at 10 time idioms and expressions for English learners. In the nick of time, which means only just in time. An example would be, I finished my project in the Nick of Time.

SEGMENT 41:
Summary: I sent it at 2350. 

SEGMENT 42:
Summary: only four minutes before the deadline. 

SEGMENT 43:
Summary: Don't rush, we've got all the time in the world, says the Dalai Lama. He says there is a lot of time to do something if you don't rush it.

SEGMENT 44:
Summary: repeatedly. 

SEGMENT 45:
Summary: Take your time, which means to do something without rushing. An example would be, I make the same mistake time after time, I never learn.

SEGMENT 46:
Summary: I want it to be perfect. 

SEGMENT 47:
Summary: Times up, which means there is no more time to do something. No time to lose, which is when there is not a lot of time toDo something quickly, so it's important to do it quickly.

SEGMENT 48:
Summary: up please hand in your exams now. 

SEGMENT 49:
Summary: There's plenty of time which means there is a lot of time to do something. An example would be if you could turn back time. Turn back time means go back to a time in the past.

SEGMENT 50:
Summary: It's about time, which means to say that something should have happened before. time, would you have done anything different? It's time, it's time.

SEGMENT 51:
Summary: She has finally started to work. An example would be, she has finally begun to work at her new job. She has been at the hospital for a week and a half.

SEGMENT 52:
Summary: It's about time, which means when something happens. Well, it's  about time. It's  a long way off, but it's a long time coming.

SEGMENT 53:
Summary: Elephant English Podcast looks at 100 opposite words in English. I'm going to be testing you on six of these words at the end of this video.

SEGMENT 54:
Summary:  ill, compulsory, voluntary, rural, urban, hot, cold, right, wrong, approximate, exact, closed, open, tight, loose.

SEGMENT 55:
Summary:  tired, energetic, flexible, rigid, cheap, expensive, thick, thin, old, new, interesting, boring, soft, hard, normal,  normal.

SEGMENT 56:
Summary: Tremolo means strange, tiny, huge, total, partial, empty, full, clean, dirty, elegant, scruffy, curly, straight.

SEGMENT 57:
Summary: Ugly, ancient, modern, young, old, big, small, Clever, stupid, deep, shallow, true, balls, safe, dangerous.

SEGMENT 58:
Summary: warm cool bad good excellent terrible guilty innocent harmful beneficial weak strong mil. warm cool good excellent wonderful terrible guilty guilty innocent. innocent harmful harmful beneficial strong mil 

SEGMENT 59:
Summary: The world is full of people who are crazy, rich, poor, heavy, light, hard working, lazy, same, insane. The world is also full of wet dry graceful awkward awkward confident shy rich poor.

SEGMENT 60:
Summary: So let's test yourself now. 

SEGMENT 61:
Summary: What is the opposite word of noisy? 

SEGMENT 62:
Summary: It is quiet. 

SEGMENT 63:
Summary: What is the opposite word of open? 

SEGMENT 64:
Summary: It is closed. 

SEGMENT 65:
Summary: What is the opposite word of warm? 

SEGMENT 66:
Summary: It is cool. 

SEGMENT 67:
Summary: CNN.com takes a look back at some of the most memorable moments in the history of CNN.com. First up is a look at some memorable moments from CNN's coverage of the 2004 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia. Then we go to some more difficult ones.

SEGMENT 68:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 69:
Summary: Exactly. 

SEGMENT 70:
Summary: What is the opposite word of rigid? 

SEGMENT 71:
Summary: Flexible. 

SEGMENT 72:
Summary: Elephant English Podcast looks at 15 money idioms and expressions for English learners. Money is no object means not being worried about the price of things because you have a lot of money.

SEGMENT 73:
Summary: She has bought two Gucci bags in the last week. An example would be she has bought a Gucci bag and a Prada bag in the same week.

SEGMENT 74:
Summary: Money is no object for her. To chip in, which means to contribute money when many people are paying for something together. She says: "I want people to know that it's OK to chip in"

SEGMENT 75:
Summary: Everyone chipped in five pounds to get her a wedding present. An example would be everyone chipping in 5 pounds to buy her a present.

SEGMENT 76:
Summary: A bargain, which means good value for money. An example would be, I got this coat of fifteen pounds, it was a bargain.

SEGMENT 77:
Summary: To make a living, which means to earn the money that someone needs to live. An example would be it is hard to make ends meet when you are paying £700 a month on rent.

SEGMENT 78:
Summary: An example would be it cost 25 pounds when usually it costs 60 pounds. An example of a mistake would be an item costing 25 pounds and being sold for 60.

SEGMENT 79:
Summary: To make good money, which means to earn an income that allows you to live a comfortable life. An example would be top models making good money. It was great value for money.

SEGMENT 80:
Summary: To go on a shopping spree, which means to go shopping and buy a lot of things, an example would be, she goes on shopping spree twice a year and spends thousands of pounds. To make a loss, which mean to lose money, anexample would be,. the company made a loss this year due to the pandemic.

SEGMENT 81:
Summary: A tight budget, which means as... 

SEGMENT 82:
Summary: The amount of money that you have available to spend is a measure of how much you can afford to spend. The more money you have, the more you can spend, the less you have to worry about.

SEGMENT 83:
Summary: "I have been on a tight budget since I lost my job," she says. "I have to be very frugal with what I spend"

SEGMENT 84:
Summary: A ripoff is when you are overcharged for something. For example, the bus driver charged me £12 instead of £7 but I didn't realise what a ripoff.

SEGMENT 85:
Summary: Top of the range means of the highest quality or the most expensive product. An example would be if you want to save money, don't buy top of the Range products. Buy the cheaper ones.

SEGMENT 86:
Summary: Money doesn't grow on trees, which means money is work for, is limited and is not given away free. Money is work, not free.

SEGMENT 87:
Summary: An example would be, could you give me 20 pounds?  Would you be able to give me 10 pounds or 20 pounds for an item of clothing?

SEGMENT 88:
Summary: that? 

SEGMENT 89:
Summary: No, money doesn't grow on trees. 

SEGMENT 90:
Summary: I gave you £10 last week. 

SEGMENT 91:
Summary: Rags to riches means to go from being poor to being rich. An example would be a lot of people feel inspired when they hear his Rags to Rich's story.

SEGMENT 92:
Summary: To be broke is to have no money. To be broke means to be broke, which means to haveno money.  To be poor is to be poor, or to be in debt.

SEGMENT 93:
Summary: Elephant English Podcast: 15 love idioms and expressions for English learners. In today's video we're going to be learning 15 love expressions.

SEGMENT 94:
Summary: To chat someone up, which means to have a flirtatious conversation with someone. To talk to someone about something, which is to talk about a personal matter. To chat about something about a person, which includes a sexual topic.

SEGMENT 95:
Summary: "I'm a bit of a ladies man," he says. "I like to chat her up. An example would be, here's at the bar chatting her up"

SEGMENT 96:
Summary:  get back together, which means to start a romantic relationship with someone again. Get back together means to have a relationship again with someone you used to be in a relationship with.

SEGMENT 97:
Summary: An example would be Sarah and Thomas have got back together. An example of this would be them getting back together is Sarah getting back with Thomas.

SEGMENT 98:
Summary: A match made in heaven, which means two people who are perfect for each other. The couple have been together for more than a year.

SEGMENT 99:
Summary: An example would be they make such a good couple. An example would would be that they make a great couple. A good couple is a couple who share a love for each other. A couple who love each other is a perfect couple.

SEGMENT 100:
Summary: They're a match made in heaven. 

SEGMENT 101:
Summary: To go steady with someone, which means to have a more committed and serious relationship with someone. An example would be, James wants to go Steady with Laura but she wants to date other people.

SEGMENT 102:
Summary: To fancy someone, which means to be attracted to someone. To fancy someone is to fancy someone or to be in love with someone. It can also mean to be interested in someone or interested in them.

SEGMENT 103:
Summary: My mum fancies George Clooney. An example would be her fancies him for the role of George in The Descendants. She also fancies Leonardo DiCaprio.

SEGMENT 104:
Summary: She thinks that he is hot. 

SEGMENT 105:
Summary: To go pear-shaped, which means when something goes wrong. An example would be when she discovered that he was dating other women. 

SEGMENT 106:
Summary: To split up or to part ways. 

SEGMENT 107:
Summary: which means to finish a relationship. 

SEGMENT 108:
Summary: "I'm afraid to tell you that Katie and I have decided to split up or to part ways. An example would be, I'm afraid of telling you that I have split with Katie," he said.

SEGMENT 109:
Summary: Two people that are perfect for each other. Made for each Other, which means two people that aren't just friends, but perfect for one another.

SEGMENT 110:
Summary: An example would be, look at them, they look great together. An example of this would be a man and a woman sitting together at a restaurant.

SEGMENT 111:
Summary: they are made for each other. 

SEGMENT 112:
Summary: To be crazy about someone, which means to like or love someone very much. To fall head over heels, which Means to fall in love. An example would be Emma fell head over feet in love with Jake.

SEGMENT 113:
Summary: An example would be I can't stop thinking of her. An example of this would be to say I'm in love with a woman. I would then say I want to be with her.

SEGMENT 114:
Summary: him. 

SEGMENT 115:
Summary: I'm crazy about him. 

SEGMENT 116:
Summary: To date is to spend time with someone who you're interested in romantically. To go out with or to date, which means to go out and date someone.

SEGMENT 117:
Summary: "She's going out with or she's dating my friend William. An example would be she's going to be out with William," she said.

SEGMENT 118:
Summary: Did you know? 

SEGMENT 119:
Summary: To hit on someone, which means to... 

SEGMENT 120:
Summary: flirt with someone. 

SEGMENT 121:
Summary: "I don't know if she was hitting on me or if she were just being friendly. An example would be, I don’t know if I’m supposed to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’," he said. “I’d like to think I would be able to answer that question.”

SEGMENT 122:
Summary: To be an item, which means to be in a romantic relationship. An example would be, I didn't know that they were an item.

SEGMENT 123:
Summary: How long have they been dating? 

SEGMENT 124:
Summary:  to kiss and make up, which means to become friendly again after a fight or a disagreement. An example would be, we sometimes argue but we always kiss andMake up on the same day.

SEGMENT 125:
Summary: To cheat on someone, which means to be unfaithful to your partner. To cheat on your partner is to have an affair with another person. To commit adultery is to commit an act of adultery with someone else.

SEGMENT 126:
Summary: An example would be, they aren't dating anymore because she cheated on him within a moment. An example would been, they weren't dating because he cheated on her within a minute.

SEGMENT 127:
Summary: Elephant English Podcasts is a weekly podcast from Elephant English. This week, we look at the history of the English language. We also look at some of the world's most famous words.

SEGMENT 128:
Summary: Work idioms and expressions. In today's video we're going to be looking at 15 work idioms. We'll also be discussing 15 work expressions.

SEGMENT 129:
Summary: Cutting corners means to do something an easier or faster way. An example would be cutting corners can't be risky if you aren't careful enough.

SEGMENT 130:
Summary: Call it a day, which means... 

SEGMENT 131:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 132:
Summary: It was 1655 and there was no more work left to do so we called it a day. An example would be in 1655 when it was time to go home.

SEGMENT 133:
Summary: Think outside the box which means think about original ideas with a different perspective. An example would be our boss asked us to think outside.

SEGMENT 134:
Summary: CNN.com will feature a video each day for the next week. Visit CNN.com/soulmatestories for a new video each week. This week, we look at the problem of what to do when you feel sick.

SEGMENT 135:
Summary: Raise the bar which means do raise expectations. An example would be the new boss has new strategies to raise the bar on our performance at work.

SEGMENT 136:
Summary: Back to square one which means go back to the start. An example would be the project was lost so now we are back tosquare one. Back to squareOne is a term used to refer to a project that has been lost.

SEGMENT 137:
Summary: "It feels like I'm working 24-7. 24- 7 which means 24 hours per day and 7 days per week. An example would be it feels like it's 24/7," he said.

SEGMENT 138:
Summary: So basically all the time. 

SEGMENT 139:
Summary: A dead end job means job when you don't have any chance of receiving promotions or improving in any way. An example would be, if you want to stay motivated, it is important not to get a deadend job.

SEGMENT 140:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 141:
Summary: "I think it's a good idea to interrupt her. An example would be, I think it would be a good Idea to interrupted her," he said.

SEGMENT 142:
Summary: She has a lot on her plate. 

SEGMENT 143:
Summary: Go the extra mile, which means make an extra effort. Go the extra miles, which is to say go the extra way. Go an extra mile is to go an extra step.

SEGMENT 144:
Summary: "I really love her work ethic. An example would be, I really loveHer work ethic," she said of her daughter. "I love that she has such a strong work ethic"

SEGMENT 145:
Summary: She always goes the extra mile to help her colleagues. She always goes to the extra step to make sure they are taken care of. She is always willing to help anyone in need, even if it's just a little.

SEGMENT 146:
Summary: Get the boot, which means to be fired or to be dismissed. Get the boot is a derogatory term for people who are fired or dismissed from a job.

SEGMENT 147:
Summary: "He wasn't productive at...  he wasn'tproductive at all. An example would be, he wasn’t productive at ...  he didn't go to the gym"

SEGMENT 148:
Summary: "He got the boot and now he's looking for a job. work, so he got the Boot," says the man who was kicked out of his job. "He's got to find a job," he says.

SEGMENT 149:
Summary: "Cut to the chase" means to get to the important part and not waste any time. An example would be I have a lot of news tell you today but I'm going to cut to the Chase.

SEGMENT 150:
Summary: Be on a roll, which means the lucky or...  Be on a Roll, which Means the Lucky or... Be on A Roll, Which Means The Lucky or The Lucky.

SEGMENT 151:
Summary: successful for a period of time. 

SEGMENT 152:
Summary: "So many good things have happened to me at work this month. An example would be, I'm on a roll," he says.

SEGMENT 153:
Summary: I'm on a roll, so I'm focusing more on myself. Bend over backwards, which means make an extra effort to help. An example would be, I bent over backwards for my colleagues in my previous job.

SEGMENT 154:
Summary: Get the sack, which means to be fired or dismissed. An example would be she thought that she was going to be in the company for many years, but she got the sack.

SEGMENT 155:
Summary: Up in the air, which means not settled and unresolved. And finally, up in the sky, which is up to something that is not settled or unresolved.

SEGMENT 156:
Summary: "We don't know when the meeting will be. An example would be we don't known when we will have a meeting," he said. "That's the way it's going to be," he added.

SEGMENT 157:
Summary: It's all up in the air. 

SEGMENT 158:
Summary: Elephant English is a weekly podcast from the University of Oxford. This week, we look at the history of the English language. We'll also talk about some of the biggest issues of the day.

SEGMENT 159:
Summary: In today's video we're looking at 25 difficult words to pronounce for some English learners. We're going to be seeing one example with each of the words.

SEGMENT 160:
Summary: "I thought that I knew the answer. Thought. Thought," he said. "I thought I knew what to do." "No," he replied. "No, you don't."

SEGMENT 161:
Summary: My favourite month of the year is February. February is my favourite month. I love February. It's the time of year when I get to see my family and friends.

SEGMENT 162:
Summary: This sofa is really comfortable. comfortable. This sofa isreally comfortable. It's a great sofa to sit on when you're watching TV or reading.

SEGMENT 163:
Summary: The first day of autumn is in September. The first day to mark the start of autumn in the UK is September 1st. The date is also known as the Autumnal Equinox, the first day the sun sets.

SEGMENT 164:
Summary: Chocolate. I love to eat chocolate. 

SEGMENT 165:
Summary: "The average age of my students is 15. Average. Average age is 15," she says. "I'm not worried about it. I just want them to have fun"

SEGMENT 166:
Summary: Lichuta. Lichuta is a mirror. 

SEGMENT 167:
Summary: of our society. 

SEGMENT 168:
Summary: Culture. 

SEGMENT 169:
Summary: I love learning about other cultures. 

SEGMENT 170:
Summary: Throughout. 

SEGMENT 171:
Summary: CNN will provide updates on this story throughout the day. Visit CNN.com/sport for live coverage of the Paralympic Games.

SEGMENT 172:
Summary: Asia. I have never been to Asia. 

SEGMENT 173:
Summary: Although I have a cat, I prefer dogs.  Although, although I have an cat,  I prefer dog.  I'm a dog lover. I love dogs.

SEGMENT 174:
Summary: The man finds the highest mountain on the island. Mountain. The man finds. the highestmountain on the Island. Mountain, the highest peak in the country.

SEGMENT 175:
Summary: Who is the author of your favourite book? Tell us in the comments below. I would love to hear from you about your favourite books.

SEGMENT 176:
Summary: Athlete is a great example of courage and strength. Courage. Strength. The athlete is aGreat example of Courage and Strength. Courage, Strength and Courage.

SEGMENT 177:
Summary: I don't like the idea of having a pet bird. I don't want to have a pet dog or a pet cat. I just want a pet. Bird.

SEGMENT 178:
Summary: "I need to have a blood test at the doctors. Blood. I need to go to the doctors," she said. "I need a bloodtest at the Doctors"

SEGMENT 179:
Summary: "I have a lot of anxiety in my exam seasons," she says. "I'm always worried about what I'm going to do in the future"

SEGMENT 180:
Summary: There are hierarchies in the animal kingdom. There is a hierarchy in every aspect of life, including in the human body. There are also hierarchies among humans and other primates.

SEGMENT 181:
Summary: The fire was caused by poor maintenance of the building. The cause of the fire has not yet been determined. The fire is under investigation by the fire department.

SEGMENT 182:
Summary: visit London every year. 

SEGMENT 183:
Summary: Europe. Where do you live in Europe? 

SEGMENT 184:
Summary: The city was very busy last night. Busy. Very busy. The city wasvery busy.  Last night. It was very. busy.

SEGMENT 185:
Summary: Audio. I need to change my audio settings. Audio.  I need a change myAudio settings. audio. I don't know how to change the audio settings on my computer.

SEGMENT 186:
Summary: This building was built in 1930. It is located on the site of a former factory. The building is now home to a variety of businesses and restaurants.

SEGMENT 187:
Summary: Consequence. 

SEGMENT 188:
Summary:  Elephant English Podcast: 25 difficult words to pronounce in English for English learners. In today's video we're going to look at 25 words that are difficult to pronounce.

SEGMENT 189:
Summary: The architecture in Barcelona was amazing. The city is known as one of the most beautiful places in the world. The architecture was inspired by the city's Catalan heritage.

SEGMENT 190:
Summary: Toph. This question is Toph. 

SEGMENT 191:
Summary: It isn't easy to answer. 

SEGMENT 192:
Summary: Shed. 

SEGMENT 193:
Summary: I have a fixed schedule at work. 

SEGMENT 194:
Summary: Mortgage, I will pay off my mortgage in 20 years. Mortgage, I'll pay offmy mortgage in20 years. mortgage,    mortgage, I’m paying off my Mortgage. mortgage.

SEGMENT 195:
Summary: "The situation was awkward and I didn't know what to say. Awkward, the situation waskward and I Didn't know What to say," she said.

SEGMENT 196:
Summary: There was a squirrel climbing up the tree. There was also a squirrel in the house. There were also two squirrels in the car.

SEGMENT 197:
Summary: The audience laughed when the comedian told a joke. The audience laughed at the comedian when he said a joke about the weather. The comedian then went on to tell a different joke.

SEGMENT 198:
Summary: There is not enough space in my kitchen covered. Covered, there is not Enough Space in My Kitchen covered.  Covered. C covered.

SEGMENT 199:
Summary: I need some scissors to cut this piece of paper. Scissors, I need someissors. Sc scissors, Ineed some scissors.  Scissors.

SEGMENT 200:
Summary: "Home, you are my favorite person in the whole world," she says. "I love you more than anything in the world. I love you so much. You are my everything"

SEGMENT 201:
Summary: Fion say: I would like to introduce you to my Fion say, David. David says: Fion says: I am David. I am Fion.

SEGMENT 202:
Summary: "They are a pleasant couple and we enjoy spending time with them," says Mrs. Pleasant. "They have a great sense of humor," she adds. "It's great to see them together"

SEGMENT 203:
Summary: I am following a recipe to make this dish. I am using a recipe for this recipe. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.

SEGMENT 204:
Summary: Entrepreneur. 

SEGMENT 205:
Summary: He is... 

SEGMENT 206:
Summary: an entrepreneur that has great ideas. 

SEGMENT 207:
Summary: It is a coincidence that we were both at the supermarket at the same time. Coincidence. It is also a coincidence we were in the same place at the time. It's a coincidence.

SEGMENT 208:
Summary: I would like to live on an island with nice beaches. Island.  Island. Island, Island. I want to live in an island, Island, island. I would like a nice beach.

SEGMENT 209:
Summary: Ballet. I used to do ballet when I... 

SEGMENT 210:
Summary: with a child. 

SEGMENT 211:
Summary: I'll. 

SEGMENT 212:
Summary: The bread is on the same aisle as the cakes. The bread is in the middle of the aisle. The cakes are on the right side of the store.

SEGMENT 213:
Summary: Is it weird that I like being alone? I like to be alone. Weird. Is that weird? I don't know. It's just weird to me.

SEGMENT 214:
Summary: "I need a bigger wardrobe for all my clothes," she says. "I need to get more clothes. I need to buy more clothes" She adds: "I don't want to wear the same thing every day"

SEGMENT 215:
Summary: Egg yolk. 

SEGMENT 216:
Summary: We will need. 

SEGMENT 217:
Summary: two egg yolks for this recipe. 

SEGMENT 218:
Summary: You need to show the receipt to return the product. Receipt.  You need to showing the receipt  to return a product. receipt.

SEGMENT 219:
Summary: Numonia. 

SEGMENT 220:
Summary: She is in hospital because she has pneumonia. She has been admitted to hospital with pneumonia and is being treated in intensive care. She will be in hospital for the rest of the week.

SEGMENT 221:
Summary: Have you ever tried almond milk? Share your story with CNN iReport. Have a question about something you've never tried? Send it to iReport by emailing jennifer.smith@cnn.com.

SEGMENT 222:
Summary: Florescent. 

SEGMENT 223:
Summary:  Elephant English Podcast: 25 difficult words to pronounce in English for English learners. In today's video we're going to look at 25 words that are difficult to pronounce.

SEGMENT 224:
Summary: "His knowledge of science was excellent. He had a very good knowledge of the universe," says his son. "He was a man of great knowledge," his son adds. "His knowledge was excellent"

SEGMENT 225:
Summary: "I don't like a lot of vegetables. Vegetable, I don't Like a lot Of Vegetable," he says. "I'm not a big fan of vegetables," he adds.

SEGMENT 226:
Summary: Where are all? 

SEGMENT 227:
Summary: I would love... 

SEGMENT 228:
Summary: to live in a rural area. 

SEGMENT 229:
Summary: The temperature of the sea is 17 degrees Celsius. The sea is at its warmest in the early morning hours of the morning. The temperature is also at its highest in the morning hours.

SEGMENT 230:
Summary: Psychiatry. She is studying psychiatry. 

SEGMENT 231:
Summary: War. Have you heard the latest news about the war? Share your photos, videos and stories with CNN iReport. Share your pictures and videos of the war and share your stories of your own.

SEGMENT 232:
Summary: them. 

SEGMENT 233:
Summary: This rhythm reminds me of a song that I like.   I like this rhythm. I like it a lot. I love it. It's a good rhythm. This rhythm reminds us of something we like.

SEGMENT 234:
Summary: "I've got a really bad stomach ache. Stomach ache, I'veGot a Really Bad Stomach Ache" "I've Got A Really bad Stomach Aching"

SEGMENT 235:
Summary: The driving test examiner will ask you to perform several maneuvers. Manoeuvre, the driving test exam, is one of the most difficult in the world.

SEGMENT 236:
Summary: You could get her some jewelry for her...  You could also get her a gift for her birthday. She's been through a lot of hard times.

SEGMENT 237:
Summary: birthday. 

SEGMENT 238:
Summary: Heidi Klum says personal hygiene is very important. Heidi Klum: "Personal hygiene is important. It's not just about looking good, it's about feeling good about yourself"

SEGMENT 239:
Summary: The cemetery is next to the church. The church was built in the 19th century. The cemetery is in the grounds of the Church of Christ, Scientist.

SEGMENT 240:
Summary: The author of this book is quite famous. The author of the book is very famous. He is also the author of a number of other books, including a children's book and a novel.

SEGMENT 241:
Summary: Encourage. 

SEGMENT 242:
Summary: I encouraged her. 

SEGMENT 243:
Summary: to continue studying. 

SEGMENT 244:
Summary: Poor dogs have four paws. 

SEGMENT 245:
Summary: Tongue. 

SEGMENT 246:
Summary: Tungles are used to taste food. 

SEGMENT 247:
Summary: There are more women in this class than men. Women. More women than men in the class. More than half of the students are women. The class is made up of women.

SEGMENT 248:
Summary: "I have been waiting for twenty minutes. Minutes. minutes. I have been waited for 20 minutes. minutes," he said. "I have not been able to do anything. I can't do anything," he added.

SEGMENT 249:
Summary: Quiet! 

SEGMENT 250:
Summary: The choir was singing in the church. 

SEGMENT 251:
Summary: Ocean. He loves swimming in the ocean. 

SEGMENT 252:
Summary: The gift wasn't particularly special or personal. Particularly. The gift was to be given to a friend of the family. It was a gift to be received by a friend.

SEGMENT 253:
Summary: Seat. 

SEGMENT 254:
Summary: The police. 

SEGMENT 255:
Summary: the thief and arrested him. 

SEGMENT 256:
Summary: 5. 

SEGMENT 257:
Summary: This dress covers my thighs so it isn't very short. This dress covers her thighs so It isn't a very short dress. It's not very short at all. But it's a dress.

SEGMENT 258:
Summary: Ireland. Have you ever visited Ireland? 

SEGMENT 259:
Summary: Lettuce. I added some lettuce to the salad. Lettuce is a great addition to a salad. I like to add a little lettuce to my salads.

SEGMENT 260:
Summary: If you have liked this video, 

SEGMENT 261:
Summary: B was were being. 

SEGMENT 262:
Summary: I want to be a doctor in the future. 

SEGMENT 263:
Summary: "I was hungry so I ate a sandwich. They were hungry so they ate a sandwiches. I was hungry, they were hungry," he said.

SEGMENT 264:
Summary: I have never been happier. 

SEGMENT 265:
Summary: To become a teacher you need to study education. Become became become become to become a teaching assistant. To become a teachers you need a degree in education. To learn more about becoming a teacher, visit www.teachercentral.com.

SEGMENT 266:
Summary: The boy was. popular when he started at his new school. He became a. popular student at the new school, where he is now a member of staff.

SEGMENT 267:
Summary: Has she become famous yet? 

SEGMENT 268:
Summary: "We should begin now because it is getting late," he says. "We should start now. Begin, begin, begin. We must begin now"

SEGMENT 269:
Summary: I began my university degree in 2018. 

SEGMENT 270:
Summary: Has she already begun the course? 

SEGMENT 271:
Summary: Bring... 

SEGMENT 272:
Summary: Go went gone. 

SEGMENT 273:
Summary: "I love to go to the beach during the holidays," she says. "It's a great way to spend time with family and friends"

SEGMENT 274:
Summary: "I went home at about 10 p.m. She has already gone to work," he says of his wife. "She is a very, very good wife," he adds.

SEGMENT 275:
Summary: How had had? 

SEGMENT 276:
Summary: I have a lot of friends at school. 

SEGMENT 277:
Summary: He slowly passed off so he would walk on public streets or shopping with staff. He would take peace their work when his friends have stopped by that day and they would respond quietly.

SEGMENT 278:
Summary: You had any pets before? 

SEGMENT 279:
Summary: Here, heard, heard. 

SEGMENT 280:
Summary: I can't hear you. 

SEGMENT 281:
Summary: "I heard the news on the radio. They have heard that you're getting married," she says. "I'm so happy for you," he replies.

SEGMENT 282:
Summary: Keep kept kept. 

SEGMENT 283:
Summary: I'm going to keep this forever. 

SEGMENT 284:
Summary: They kept their important documents in a folder. It was a safe place for them to keep important documents. They kept them in a file in their home.

SEGMENT 285:
Summary: She has been petting her favourite photos since she was a child. She now has a collection of more than 1,000 photos of her family and friends.

SEGMENT 286:
Summary: No, new, known. 

SEGMENT 287:
Summary: I don't know who you are. 

SEGMENT 288:
Summary: "I knew that you were coming to visit me yesterday. I knew it was going to be a special day," she says. "I'm so happy to see you," she adds.

SEGMENT 289:
Summary: How long have you known him? 

SEGMENT 290:
Summary: Len, Len, Len. 

SEGMENT 291:
Summary: Can you lend me your pen please? 

SEGMENT 292:
Summary: She lent me her car for a day. 

SEGMENT 293:
Summary: I have... 

SEGMENT 294:
Summary: I've lent cars in this company before. 

SEGMENT 295:
Summary: "I want to leave as soon as possible," he says. "I don't want to be here any longer than I have to be"

SEGMENT 296:
Summary: She has left her dog at home because they aren't allowed here. I left you a message but you didn't reply, she said. She said: 'I don't want to leave my dog behind. I want to go home'

SEGMENT 297:
Summary: I let my children use their tablets one hour a day. Let me. Let, let, let. I let them have their tablets.

SEGMENT 298:
Summary: your bike last weekend. 

SEGMENT 299:
Summary: My mum has let me meet my friends tomorrow. I'm looking forward to meeting them. I've never met any of them before. It's going to be great.

SEGMENT 300:
Summary: "I don't like to lose at board games. Lose, lost, lost. I don't want to lose," he says. "I just want to win"

SEGMENT 301:
Summary: I lost my phone at the festival. The team has lost a lot of matches recently. I'm not sure what's going to happen next.

SEGMENT 302:
Summary: Make, made, made. I normally make... 

SEGMENT 303:
Summary: course in the evening. 

SEGMENT 304:
Summary: The family moved to a new school. They made new friends at their new school and learned a lot about each other. They also learned how to get along with each other and their classmates.

SEGMENT 305:
Summary: Have you ever made a big mistake? 

SEGMENT 306:
Summary: Meet Met Met. I would like to meet you. 

SEGMENT 307:
Summary: She met her partner at university. Have you ever met a celebrity? Share your story with CNN iReport. Back to the page you came from.

SEGMENT 308:
Summary: Pay paid paid. I usually pay by car. 

SEGMENT 309:
Summary: not with cash. 

SEGMENT 310:
Summary: She paid for everyone's dinner as a gift. Have you ever paid too much for a product? Share your story with CNN iReport.

SEGMENT 311:
Summary: Put, put, put. 

SEGMENT 312:
Summary: Could you put this on the table please? 

SEGMENT 313:
Summary: We put a Christmas tree in the corner. 

SEGMENT 314:
Summary: Have you ever put some music on really loud at home? Share your stories with CNN iReport. Share your photos and videos of music you like to listen to at home.

SEGMENT 315:
Summary: Read, read. 

SEGMENT 316:
Summary: red. 

SEGMENT 317:
Summary: I love to read poetry. In the summer I read a fantastic novel. Have you ever read pride and prejudice? Please share your story.

SEGMENT 318:
Summary: Run, ran, run. I can run very fast. 

SEGMENT 319:
Summary: He ran to the bus stop to catch the bus. He ran to a bus stop and caught a bus. Then he ran back to his car and got on the bus again.

SEGMENT 320:
Summary: Tom isn't here. 

SEGMENT 321:
Summary: He has run to the shop to get a drink. 

SEGMENT 322:
Summary: She said to me that she was going on holiday. Have you said anything to him? I can say goodbye in French. Say, said, said.

SEGMENT 323:
Summary: See, saw, see. 

SEGMENT 324:
Summary: "I can't see anything without my glasses," she says. "It's like I'm blind," she adds. "I just don't know what to do"

SEGMENT 325:
Summary: I saw a really nice car yesterday. 

SEGMENT 326:
Summary: Have you seen the new shop in all town? 

SEGMENT 327:
Summary: They sell clothes and accessories. Sell, sold, sold. They sell clothes, sold and sold. Sell and sell and sell. They sold clothes and Accessories.

SEGMENT 328:
Summary: You have sold your old computer. He sold his car on a website. He has sold his old computer on a site. He is selling his car. You have sold his computer.

SEGMENT 329:
Summary: Can you send me a message later? Send, sent, sent. Can you send a picture? Send a picture of yourself. Send a photo of yourself and your family.

SEGMENT 330:
Summary: She sent me a birthday card. Have you sent any Christmas cards yet? I'm not sure I've sent any yet. I'm still waiting for my wife to send me one.

SEGMENT 331:
Summary: Brought, brought. 

SEGMENT 332:
Summary: Remember to bring your books to class. 

SEGMENT 333:
Summary: Last year I brought a present to your birthday party. We have all brought some food for the picnic. I hope you enjoy the picnic with your friends.

SEGMENT 334:
Summary: I need to buy a laptop because my old one is broken. Buy, bought, bought. I need to get a new laptop.  Buy, Bought, Bought.

SEGMENT 335:
Summary: You bought the item with cash. 

SEGMENT 336:
Summary: You can sing very well. Sing, sang, sung. You can sing, sing, sung, you can sing. You're a good singer. You are a great singer.

SEGMENT 337:
Summary: The crowd sang along to the band's new song. The band is currently on tour in the U.S. and will be in Australia next year.

SEGMENT 338:
Summary: I have never sung in public. 

SEGMENT 339:
Summary: "I like to sit in the front seat of the car. Sit, sat, sat. I like to be in the middle of it," he said.

SEGMENT 340:
Summary: She sat next to her boyfriend on the plane. Have you ever sat at the emergency exit on a plane? Share your story with CNN iReport.

SEGMENT 341:
Summary: "I always sleep nine hours a day. Sleep, slept, slept. I always sleep," he said. "I'm a very, very good sleeper"

SEGMENT 342:
Summary: The baby slept in the car on the journey. Have you ever slept in an apple? Share your stories with CNN iReport. Back to Mail Online home.

SEGMENT 343:
Summary: "I don't speak German. Speak, spoke, spoken. I don't speaks German," says German-born British singer. "I'm not a German. I'm a British person," she adds.

SEGMENT 344:
Summary: She spoke to me in perfect English. 

SEGMENT 345:
Summary: Have you ever spoken to him? 

SEGMENT 346:
Summary: Don't stand up when the bus is moving. Stand, stood. Don't stand on the floor. Stand on the ground. Stand up. Stand in the middle of the aisle. Stand.

SEGMENT 347:
Summary: "I have always stood at concerts. She stood up because she couldn't see the white board," he said of his wife. "I'm not a big fan of standing up at concerts," he added.

SEGMENT 348:
Summary: I don't know how to swim. Swim, swam,. swam. I don’t knowHow to Swim. Swim. Swam. Swimming.

SEGMENT 349:
Summary: I have never swam in an Olympics swimming pool. I have never been in a swimming pool in my life. I was in the sea yesterday. I've never swum in a pool before.

SEGMENT 350:
Summary: I don't know how to swim. 

SEGMENT 351:
Summary: Take, took, taken. 

SEGMENT 352:
Summary: "I need to take my medicine in the morning," he says. "I'm not a morning person. I'm a night person. That's what I do"

SEGMENT 353:
Summary: "Someone took my pencil and now I can't find it," he says. "I'm looking for my pencil. Somebody took it"

SEGMENT 354:
Summary: Have you ever taken your dog on holiday with you? Share your stories of dog holidays with CNN iReport. Share your photos and videos of your dogs on our social media channels.

SEGMENT 355:
Summary: I love to teach English. Teach, taught, taught. That's what I do. I'm a teacher. I love teaching English. It's my passion.

SEGMENT 356:
Summary: My math teacher taught me for three years. Have you ever taught someone how to speak your own language? Share your story with CNN iReport.

SEGMENT 357:
Summary: language. 

SEGMENT 358:
Summary: "I need to tell you some important news. Tell, told, told. I need to reveal something to you," he says. "It's very important. It's a big deal."

SEGMENT 359:
Summary: "She told me a big secret. Have they told you that they are getting married?" he asks. "Yes," she replies. "It's a big surprise"

SEGMENT 360:
Summary: "I think that this is the best option. Think, thought, thought. I think that it's the best way to go," he said.

SEGMENT 361:
Summary: I thought that you had moved to another country. Have you ever thought, thought? I thought I was in the wrong country. I thought you were in a different country. You were in the right country.

SEGMENT 362:
Summary: about volunteering. 

SEGMENT 363:
Summary: "I don't understand the question. Understand, understood, understood. I don't understands the question," he said. "I don's understand the questions. I understand the questions"

SEGMENT 364:
Summary: "I have never understood people who are impatient. She understood them speaking English," he said. "I don't understand people who don't want to wait for things to happen"

SEGMENT 365:
Summary: Where? 

SEGMENT 366:
Summary: War, warm. 

SEGMENT 367:
Summary: I don't like to wear high heeled shoes. 

SEGMENT 368:
Summary: I wore a beautiful dress to the event. 

SEGMENT 369:
Summary: "I have bought a lot of clothes this year. I have been shopping a lot," says the mother-of-two. "I have been buying clothes for the rest of my life," she adds.

SEGMENT 370:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Please submit your best shots of the U.S. for next week. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery.

SEGMENT 371:
Summary: She chose the best option. 

SEGMENT 372:
Summary: Have you chosen the course that you want to study? If so, please share your thoughts in the comments below. If not, please send in a photo of your chosen course of study.

SEGMENT 373:
Summary: "Please come to my party on Friday. Come, came, come. Please come, come," he said. "I'm looking forward to it"

SEGMENT 374:
Summary: He came to visit me yesterday. 

SEGMENT 375:
Summary: Has anyone come to see your new house? 

SEGMENT 376:
Summary: Do did done. 

SEGMENT 377:
Summary: I normally do my homework at 6pm. 

SEGMENT 378:
Summary: We did a lot of things on our holiday. 

SEGMENT 379:
Summary: Have you done the washing up? 

SEGMENT 380:
Summary: Drink, drunk, drunk. I always drink. 

SEGMENT 381:
Summary: liter of water per day. 

SEGMENT 382:
Summary: Yesterday I drank some wine. 

SEGMENT 383:
Summary: Have you ever drunk vodka? 

SEGMENT 384:
Summary: "I drive to work every day. Drive, drove, driven. I drive, drive, driven," he says. "I'm a driver. That's what I do. It's my job."

SEGMENT 385:
Summary: Last week I drove 500 kilometres to visit my family. It was the first time I had been in over a year. I was looking forward to seeing my family and friends.

SEGMENT 386:
Summary: She has never driven a car before. 

SEGMENT 387:
Summary: "I like to eat my main meal at 5pm. Eat, ate. Eat," he says. "That's what I like to do. That's how I eat. I don't like to wait until 5pm."

SEGMENT 388:
Summary: Yesterday I ate sushi. 

SEGMENT 389:
Summary: Have you ever eaten octopus? 

SEGMENT 390:
Summary: Fall fell fallen. I usually fall when I run quickly. Fall fell fell.  I usually fell when I running quickly. Iusually fall when i run quickly, I usually run quickly and I fall.

SEGMENT 391:
Summary: She fell down the stairs yesterday. 

SEGMENT 392:
Summary: She has never fallen in love. 

SEGMENT 393:
Summary: Feel? 

SEGMENT 394:
Summary: Felt, felt. 

SEGMENT 395:
Summary: I don't feel well. 

SEGMENT 396:
Summary: He had never felt so much love for someone. She felt sad when she heard the news. He had never been more in love with someone in his life.

SEGMENT 397:
Summary: Find, found, found. 

SEGMENT 398:
Summary: I need to find a new job. 

SEGMENT 399:
Summary: He found his mobile phone in his bag. 

SEGMENT 400:
Summary: Have you ever found any money in the strait? Share your story with CNN iReport. Share your photos of money you've found in the water.

SEGMENT 401:
Summary: We fly on the 28th of August. Fly, flu, flown. We fly on  August 28th. fly, flu,. flown.

SEGMENT 402:
Summary: The parrot flew around the zoo. 

SEGMENT 403:
Summary: She has never flown an aeroplane. 

SEGMENT 404:
Summary: Forget, forgot, forgotten. Don't forget to do your homework. Do you remember your homework? If so, please send it to CNN iReport.

SEGMENT 405:
Summary: She forgot to come to the party. 

SEGMENT 406:
Summary: Have you ever forgotten your phone at home? Share your stories with CNN iReport. Share your photos and videos of when you forgot your phone. Visit CNN.com/sport and share your pictures and videos.

SEGMENT 407:
Summary: Get, got, got. 

SEGMENT 408:
Summary: Can you go and get my phone please? 

SEGMENT 409:
Summary: He has never got a bad mark in an exam. I got an A star in my exam. He has never been a star in his exam.

SEGMENT 410:
Summary: Give, gaze, given. 

SEGMENT 411:
Summary: Give me a call when you're ready. 

SEGMENT 412:
Summary: He gave me a hug when we said goodbye. 

SEGMENT 413:
Summary: He has given me two gifts this year. 

SEGMENT 414:
Summary: A lot of people love watching movies. 

SEGMENT 415:
Summary: People in England watch around 172 films per year. Committees, thrillers, dramas and action movies are the most popular genres in England.

SEGMENT 416:
Summary: Star Wars The Force Awakens Skyfall 

SEGMENT 417:
Summary: James Bond films are the most successful films of all time in England. No time to die is the second most popular James Bond film of all-time.

SEGMENT 418:
Summary: There are many film genres, action, comedy, drama, horror, romance, western, science fiction, historical, musical, etc.

SEGMENT 419:
Summary: "I don't normally stream a lot of movies. Normally, when you watch cable TV, there are a lots of adverts. Sometimes, they last 10 minutes, which is a lot for people to lose," he says.

SEGMENT 420:
Summary: I prefer watching series. 

SEGMENT 421:
Summary: I think that it takes a long time. 

SEGMENT 422:
Summary: There are so many options to choose from when it comes to a movie to watch. When you start watching a series, it is a lot quicker to watch something because you already know what you are going to do.

SEGMENT 423:
Summary: CNN.com will be posting questions for readers to answer in the comment section. There won't be any subtitles so it's going to be a little bit more difficult. I would like you to answer these questions in the comments section and I will correct your answers.

SEGMENT 424:
Summary: The first 

SEGMENT 425:
Summary: Romance and comedy are my favourite genres because they are films that are easy to watch and they are difficult to follow. When I watch a suspense or an action...  I find it hard to follow because I'm not used to it.

SEGMENT 426:
Summary: film. 

SEGMENT 427:
Summary: Sometimes it's difficult to understand what is happening if you are not paying 100% attention. Sometimes it is difficult to see what is going on if you aren't paying attention.

SEGMENT 428:
Summary: "I like to watch comedies or even romantic comedies which are a mix of romance and comedy. So I like to watching comedies," she said.

SEGMENT 429:
Summary: When it is a Friday evening 

SEGMENT 430:
Summary: I don't really like action films because they are all quite similar. There are always car chases, guns, fighting and I don't like violence. you don't want to have to concentrate a lot on the film so that is why I like these genres.

SEGMENT 431:
Summary: "They're repetitive and also very violent. So they are repetitive and  very violent," he said. "They're very violent and very repetitive," he added.

SEGMENT 432:
Summary: "I don't like action films. Those are the two reasons why I don't likes action films," he says. "I'm not a fan of action movies. I'm not into action films."

SEGMENT 433:
Summary: When you watch a Tom Cruise film, they all seem...  Tom Cruise. Especially ones with Tom Cruise, that is. Tom Cruise: The Cruise Diaries is out now on Blu-Ray and DVD.

SEGMENT 434:
Summary: I pay for a streaming service because I don't like to watch Advert. I think that it is better to pay £10 per month. The third question is, do you pay for an Netflix, HBO or Amazon Prime video?

SEGMENT 435:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 436:
Summary: "I try my best not to fall into this trap of not being content with things now and thinking that I'll be more content later. So here are some of the things that I'm trying to do," he said.

SEGMENT 437:
Summary: "I try to just be really thankful and I thank God for what I have right now. I do this all the time," she says.

SEGMENT 438:
Summary: "I should always... Just remind yourself of everything you have now and be thankful for these things," she says. "When I go through the list of all the blessings I have, it's overwhelming"

SEGMENT 439:
Summary: "We're going to be really happy when that thing happens," he says. "That's a good thing to look forward to things in the future and have goals"

SEGMENT 440:
Summary: We can all benefit from, we can benefit from practicing gratitude, being thankful for what we have. That definitely helps when you can just be thankful, practice gratitude. That's an obvious one that we should all do.

SEGMENT 441:
Summary: There are so many things that I hoped for, prayed for that actually happened. And it's easy afterwards to just forget about all those things. So I think it's important to take time, to look back and see all these things that you were really hoping for and waiting for. "It's been an ear and a half or so that we've been here. How things would have been so different if she hadn't gotten that residency and... 

SEGMENT 442:
Summary: "I just feel a huge sense of gratitude and I remember how much I was hoping for that, praying for that," she said. "Just taking some time to think about that really kind of makes me feel content"

SEGMENT 443:
Summary: "I'm facing some problems with my business. I'm facing a lot of problems," he said. "I'm not going to lie to you. I've got some problems."

SEGMENT 444:
Summary: "I'm really thankful that I've reached this point, considering that I was not at this point two years ago or three years ago," he says. "When I take the time to look back and remember that, that really helps me to feel thankful again"

SEGMENT 445:
Summary: I think it's important to be content now, be content. able to look back and see the progress, see how I've been blessed. Just being a... feel discontent now before we've reached that goal. I don't think we should just always assume that we're gonna be happy later when we have that thing.

SEGMENT 446:
Summary: "I think that this is a good... type of comparison. A lot of times it's not healthy to compare yourself to other people," he says.

SEGMENT 447:
Summary: I think it's good to look at other people that have problems and issues and sufferings that you don't have so that you can appreciate your own life. I think that's a good way to put it. Imagine how much more suffering you could have right now. How much worse your life could be.

SEGMENT 448:
Summary: I think that looking at other people's lives, things that other people are going through, that thankfully you're not going through. Now that can really help you kind of stop complaining and it can help you be more content now. Another thing that I think can help, that has helped me, is to have low expectations. We should have ambitious goals for ourselves, but maybe we shouldn't have really high expectations for... everything that we want to receive. We shouldn't always expect to have the best of everything because in this life there are always things that aren't going to be good that happen to us. "I don't think we should really just live with this idea that it'll be better later," he says. "I think that we can definitely be content now," he adds.

SEGMENT 449:
Summary: "When you aren't expecting to earn so much money but then you do earn more money it feels great it feels a lot better than when you feel like you deserve this high amount of money and then you don't"

SEGMENT 450:
Summary: Happiness is a choice, not a goal. We have the choice to be content. Now, even with the negative things in our lives, we can choose to becontent.

SEGMENT 451:
Summary: Oh, yeah, don't need... 

SEGMENT 452:
Summary: Honour: "You have the choice to be content. Right now, in this situation, even if things aren't good right now, you can still choose to becontent"

SEGMENT 453:
Summary: I hope that this episode was interesting for you. You might not agree with 100% of what I said. That's perfectly fine, but these are things that been on my mind. I want to encourage you to use my advanced episodes if you're interested in practicing with real English spoken fast at normal speed. I also recommend that you start using my US Conversations podcast to listen to conversations that I have with other native speakers. That should be your goal to eventually be able to understand when other people are having a conversation. So if you're interested in that, the link is down below.

SEGMENT 454:
Summary: This is the 183rd episode of the Listening Time Podcast. We're going to talk about the benefits of learning a language. We'll also talk about how to be content with your life. When you learn a language, you kind of have to Exercise your brain in a different way. There's really nothing else like learning a language. This can have a positive effect on creativity. When you learn a language you really exercise the problem solving part of your brain. Your brain is trying to solve that mystery. So I can definitely see how learning a language can strengthen your problem solving skills.

SEGMENT 455:
Summary: Learn a language to increase your ability to concentrate. Learn a language so you can communicate with your family and friends. Learn to speak a language in order to communicate with others in your community.

SEGMENT 456:
Summary: Learn a language requires a lot of focus. It really engages your concentration. If you're interacting in a foreign language, if you're not paying full attention, you might not understand them. Your brain is able to concentrate better, to focus better.  that your brain is able to concentrate better, to focus better.

SEGMENT 457:
Summary: Learn a language to improve your ability to multitask, says a new study. The study found that learning a language can help improve your multitasking abilities.

SEGMENT 458:
Summary: This is one that I had never thought of before. I guess this might have something to do with the fact that...  I'm not sure what it is.

SEGMENT 459:
Summary: You can continue learning any other language that you're currently studying right now. to continue on with your English learning, or continue learning  other languages that you are currently studying.

SEGMENT 460:
Summary: I want to encourage you to start using my advanced episodes. You'll need to eventually use native level content. that when you speak multiple languages you often switch between the two languages. You go back and forth between Spanish and English or Portuguese and Spanish or whatever.

SEGMENT 461:
Summary: Maybe you can... go back and forth between two different activities more easily. Maybe you can go back to one activity and another activity at the same time.

SEGMENT 462:
Summary: "I think that many people... would agree that learning a language can possibly help your brain age better," he says. "When I say age better, I'm saying as it gets older, it doesn't decline as much"

SEGMENT 463:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 464:
Summary: If you say that someone has aged very well, that means that they look good, even though they've gotten older. If you say you've aged well, it means that you've done a lot of work to look good.

SEGMENT 465:
Summary: I think that it would be really cool if the language learning that I've done could help me, help my brain actually be healthier in my old age. Right? So, this is probably the most interesting brain benefit.

SEGMENT 466:
Summary: So, there is some evidence. 

SEGMENT 467:
Summary: Learning a language can possibly slow down cognitive decline, according to a study. The study was published in the Journal of the American Gerontological Association.

SEGMENT 468:
Summary: That's really cool. 

SEGMENT 469:
Summary: There is some evidence that... suggests. So it might slow down the processes that be two different dimensions and other brain-related issues. That sounds like a great benefit.

SEGMENT 470:
Summary: There are a lot of different possible benefits related to your brain, in terms of learning a language. Learning a language might improve your episodic memory. So your memory of specific events in the past.

SEGMENT 471:
Summary: Learning a language can help your career. I'm sure many of you are doing that and so if you speak before in language This can help you work for foreign companies of course.

SEGMENT 472:
Summary: Many students in the past have learned English and it has allowed them to get a job with a company from the US or Europe. They were able to earn their salary in dollars or in euros and then. spend in their local currency. This made them rich almost in their countries.

SEGMENT 473:
Summary: And that's... 

SEGMENT 474:
Summary:  advanced episodes help get your ears accustomed to real English spoken fast. Of course, you have the transcript for all of those episodes. And you can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast.

SEGMENT 475:
Summary: Learning a foreign language improves your knowledge of your own language. Learning a language can also help you work with foreign clients. You can talk to other people and your company that are based in different countries because a lot of them probably speak English.

SEGMENT 476:
Summary: This has definitely happened to me. 

SEGMENT 477:
Summary: When you learn a foreign language, specifically as an adult, it really helps you analyze your native language. You can see the differences, you can compare the two and contrast them. And it might also help improve your vocabulary in your nativelanguage.

SEGMENT 478:
Summary: This has happened to me. 

SEGMENT 479:
Summary: There are words in English that I didn't really know the meaning of before, but in Spanish or in French, for example, there is that same word.

SEGMENT 480:
Summary: Maybe it looks... 

SEGMENT 481:
Summary: "Your vocabulary, your native language can also improve by learning a foreign language," she says. "You're going to have a better understanding of your own language"

SEGMENT 482:
Summary: So I like that, Ben Sit. 

SEGMENT 483:
Summary: Learn a foreign language to communicate better overall. It makes you more conscious of language in general. It's really helped me talk more effectively to non-native speakers of my own language. The Daily Discussion is a weekly podcast from CNN.com. This week, Jarrett ponders the meaning of the word "dignitaries" The Daily Discussion will be in English.

SEGMENT 484:
Summary: Remember to give this podcast a five star rating. And remember to write a review if you can. All right, let's. go.

SEGMENT 485:
Summary: "I don't use all of those hard words and phrases and expressions when I'm talking to them," he says. "I try to find simpler ways to say the same thing"

SEGMENT 486:
Summary: I think that it's important to try to help non-native speakers of your language. Understand you. It's good to adjust your speech to help them out if you can. So I'll talk.

SEGMENT 487:
Summary: about that in that advanced episode. 

SEGMENT 488:
Summary: Learn a foreign language to boost your self-esteem. It can help you feel like you've reached a pretty good level in that language.

SEGMENT 489:
Summary: The more skills that you have, the more self-confidence you probably have. You feel competent, right? You feel like you've accomplished something. You have this new skill.

SEGMENT 490:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 491:
Summary: When you have different skills, you feel more capable of doing different things. This can really boost your self-esteem. And this is also related to travel, for example, like you can travel to a foreign country and speak English there and be understood.

SEGMENT 492:
Summary: When you do something with ease, this means that you do it in an easy way, in a comfortable way. That can feel really good boost your confidence. when you can travel with ease. "I was very impressed and they congratulate you on the  success," he said. "They were very impressed with your work. very impressed," he added.

SEGMENT 493:
Summary: able to do that. 

SEGMENT 494:
Summary: I don't think that this is the best reason to learn a foreign language. I think you should do it for your own benefit, not to impress others. But of course, many people would see this as a benefit.

SEGMENT 495:
Summary: I hope that this gives you more motivation to continue on with your English learning. I hope it motivates you to also use my advanced podcast episodes and my US conversations.

SEGMENT 496:
Summary: Learn more about the different benefits of learning a language. What added benefits might you get besides just learning the language? Share your thoughts in the comments below.

SEGMENT 497:
Summary: Learn how to speak native English fast. Use these resources to make this a little more accessible to you because I provide the transcript for you. This is something that really helped you out. Study suggests that learning a foreign language helps your brain be more creative. Learning a language can have some different benefits for your brain. So one benefit is increased creativity. Christmas will be in about a week. If I'm not mistaken, and that's actually the topic of today's episode. We're going to talk about Christmas, and specifically what Christmas is like in the US.

SEGMENT 498:
Summary: The month of December is special in the US. It looks different. It sounds different. You can tell that it's the Christmas season. Anytime in December.

SEGMENT 499:
Summary: Christmas is significant for its family aspect as well. In the US we have a whole culture that is related to this holiday. This is a day when you get together with your family and you eat together. The Christmas season starts right after Thanksgiving. Some people already get in the Christmas spirit earlier on in the year. However, I think that  Christians. parate culture when it comes to Christians.

SEGMENT 500:
Summary: For most people, after Thanksgiving, it's Christmas time. So this starts at the end of November, of course, and then it continues on through December. We have a full month where everything deals deals like Christmas this season. Most people have their decorations up throughout the month of December. Sometimes you'll see them even earlier than that, and they'll stay up even later than the beginning of January.

SEGMENT 501:
Summary: Christmas is very. important and it's very unique in this country. So I'm happy to talk about that today. And we have some special areas throughout our cities, where we have really, really cool Christmas decorations and Christmas lights. "I'm excited to take my family to see some of these neighborhoods this season. And they sometimes sell things in these neighborhoods at night when a lot of... people are walking through the neighborhood," he says.

SEGMENT 502:
Summary: They might sell hot chocolate or cookies or other snacks. They might also sell hot cocoa or cookies. They may also sell other snacks like hot chocolate and cookies.

SEGMENT 503:
Summary: There is a whole genre of music here called Christmas music. Musical artists release Christmas albums specifically for this season. So that's something that you'll hear everywhere. It sounds like Christmas during this month. We have Christmas movies in the US. And people watch Christmas movies. This is a genre of movies here in the U.S. It's called a Christmas movie.

SEGMENT 504:
Summary: There are tons and tons. 

SEGMENT 505:
Summary: Some families have the tradition of watching the same Christmas movie or the sameChristmas movies every year. They've already seen those movies 20 times but they continue to watch them every year because it's the tradition.

SEGMENT 506:
Summary: When I was a kid there were a couple Christmas movies that I really liked and I watched them year after year so I participated in that a little bit when I was younger. And there are Christmas cards that you see in people's houses. A Christmas card is a card that you make by taking a picture.

SEGMENT 507:
Summary: Make sure to join my membership so you can access my listening practice seminars, where I help you understand the real sounds of English when people speak at novel speed. And before we start, remember that if you need my help to understand native speakers when they speak fast, then make sure to sign up.

SEGMENT 508:
Summary: The link is down below in the episode description. That's patreon.com slash.  The episode is also available on iTunes and Stitcher.

SEGMENT 509:
Summary: Some people write things about what each person in their family has done this year. family and then you create these Christmas cards and you send them to your friends and family.

SEGMENT 510:
Summary: People will put these Christmas cards on their refrigerator. Some people do that with these cards, but other people just put the names of each person on the card. And of course, there's the food, I haven't mentioned that, but the food during the Christmas season is very particular to Christmas. So there are a lot of  different types of...  different type of  people.  Different types of people have different personalities. Different types have different ways of expressing themselves. Different kinds of people are different.

SEGMENT 511:
Summary: There are a lot of flavors that change during this season. foods that we only eat during Christmas or during Thanksgiving. Certain drinks, especially that are like holiday drinks, like eggnog. In the US Christmas is December 25th. Christmas Eve is what we call December 24th. This is the most important day. People will greet you or they will say goodbye to you with a merry Christmas. If you like this podcast please share it with any other English learners that you.   The link is also down below. That's patreon.com slash US Conversations.

SEGMENT 512:
Summary: In other countries, December 24th is the important day, and then the 25th isn't quite that important. However, in the US, it's not like this. People don't usually stay up all night.

SEGMENT 513:
Summary: "That's not the traditional custom in the US. Some people might do that but that's not what's most common," he says.

SEGMENT 514:
Summary: Most people really enjoy Christmas Eve and many people celebrate on that day. Kids especially love waking up really early on Christmas day and going to open their presents.

SEGMENT 515:
Summary: December 24th and December 25th are both really important. However, the 25th is Christmas for us. That is the day. And one other thing I wanted to mention is the weather. If you live in a place in the US. that has a real winter, people often hope for a white Christmas. In the US many people live in houses versus apartments. e goes up through the chimney. Of course a lot of people live  in apartments too but here many many people living in houses.

SEGMENT 516:
Summary: It's common to have a fireplace and you can light a fire and feel warm and cozy by the fire with your family. Enjoy that atmosphere, that nice environment and see the snow outside.

SEGMENT 517:
Summary: I really love that. 

SEGMENT 518:
Summary: US. 

SEGMENT 519:
Summary: "I love Christmas. It's my favorite holiday. And for me, it's the only thing I like about the winter season. Because I don't like the winter. The days are too short," she says.

SEGMENT 520:
Summary:  know and please give it a 5 star rating and writer of you know and write of you. I hope you will enjoy this article as much as I enjoyed writing it.

SEGMENT 521:
Summary: Christmas is usually considered by most people to be the most important holiday in the winter. When Christmas is over, then I want it to be spring or summer again. But I love Christmas and I'm looking forward to Christmas this year. I hope you enjoyed this episode.

SEGMENT 522:
Summary: Make sure to join my membership so you can get my listening training. Remember that if you need my help, understanding native speakers when they speak fast, make sure to sign up.

SEGMENT 523:
Summary: You can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast. The link is down below. And if you like this podcast, you can support it on patreon.com.

SEGMENT 524:
Summary:  Thanksgiving is not the most important holiday in the US, but for some reason a lot of people from other countries think this. Most people would consider Christmas to be the mostimportant holiday. In the U.S., Christmas is the celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ.

SEGMENT 525:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 526:
Summary: There's a huge reason to celebrate if you're a Christian. This holiday is probably still the most important one throughout the year. It's become a holiday that most people celebrate whether or not they regard the religious aspect.

SEGMENT 527:
Summary: This episode will go into detail about my life, really. You'll learn about me and my process of learning Spanish. There are some really important principles that we can all learn from our experience that will help all of us as language learners.

SEGMENT 528:
Summary: "I learned a very, very small amount of Spanish when I was five years old," she says. "I was in kindergarten. I learned a little bit of Spanish," she adds.

SEGMENT 529:
Summary: And that's because I... 

SEGMENT 530:
Summary: I had a couple after school Spanish classes, but I think I only learned how to count to ten. And I didn't see any Spanish. I had no experience to Spanish again until I was in high school. In high school I took two years of Spanish which is what most people do.

SEGMENT 531:
Summary: It might be different now. 

SEGMENT 532:
Summary: Most people in the US choose Spanish because it's the most relevant and useful for us. I took two years of Spanish in high school when I was 14 15 years old and I learned just a little bit like most of us in public school language classes.

SEGMENT 533:
Summary: "I think I mentioned this in a bonus episode. If I'm not mistaken or an advanced episode, I don't remember. But there was one thing that I did take from those classes that was useful"

SEGMENT 534:
Summary: Verb conjugation just refers to changing the form of the verb based on the subject. Verb conjugations can be used to change the spelling of words.

SEGMENT 535:
Summary: "I didn't learn the language of course, and I wasn't interested at all in language learning or in Spanish, to be honest," he says. " Verb conjugation is more complex and it's something that a lot of people have trouble with when they first start learning Spanish" Rder to transfer was that I needed to have already taken an intermediate course in some language, some foreign language. So of course I chose Spanish and I think you can learn a lot from my experience learning Spanish. And I also want to make an interesting announcement. Most of you won't be interested in this, but I want to mention it because sometimes people ask me about...

SEGMENT 536:
Summary: "I decided to go to Mexico for five weeks and be in a language school and study Spanish for five hours a day" "It was a really fun experience. Of course, everything else that I did.

SEGMENT 537:
Summary: "I learned a lot, but it only got me to a level in which I could have basic conversations. So obviously I didn't reach a high level after those classes, of course" "The best thing about that school was that they had a conversation class after the normal classes" During conversation class, those locals can go and then the foreigners who are learning Spanish at that school can also go. I think they still do this. Maybe they don't, but that's what we did in the past.

SEGMENT 538:
Summary: "I couldn't speak well and I couldn't understand well in terms of Spanish. And I made the decision that I wanted to learn Spanish because I was serious about my relationship with my future wife" My wife has just started a podcast for Spanish. And so I told her to only talk to me in Spanish 100% of the time. And I was only going to talk in Spanish as well.

SEGMENT 539:
Summary: "We talked pretty much every day on the phone or on Skype or something for about an hour a day on average," she says. "We just kind of talked about life. We got to know each other better and just talked about everything, really"

SEGMENT 540:
Summary: "I got a lot of very interesting Spanish practice because I was talking to my girlfriend at that time who I eventually wanted to marry," he says. "I really wanted to know what she was saying. I had a ton of motivation to learn the language" "I speak really well with her. And I sounded fluent to anyone else that just heard me talk. on the phone," he said.

SEGMENT 541:
Summary: "I sounded like a completely flumed Spanish speaker," he says. "I didn't listen to anyone else speaking Spanish. I didn't watch TV in Spanish" "All of the Spanish that I knew was just based on the Spanish" Her phrases, her style of speaking, her slang. Her style and slang. She was known for her slang and phrases. She also had her own style of speech.

SEGMENT 542:
Summary: That's what I knew. 

SEGMENT 543:
Summary: In Mexico, even though my listening skills were good, when I talked to people other than my wife, I realized that there was a lot that I couldn't understand because they had a different style of speaking that my wife that used different. Who want to learn Spanish and who want to learning naturally by listening to a native Spanish speaker talk about different topics like I do in this podcast.

SEGMENT 544:
Summary: "The episodes are shorter but the idea is pretty much the same. So it's very similar," he said. "It's a very different show but it's still very similar to what we do"

SEGMENT 545:
Summary: So I'm sure that if you... 

SEGMENT 546:
Summary: It took me probably almost two years before I got really good at just understanding the Spanish spoken in groups of people where more than one person is talking. because I didn't go out with groups of friends and things like that. So it wasn't a lot of practice every week. And so it took me around two years until I reached a level at which I c "I can speak very comfortably, I can understand pretty much any situation," he says. "I still make a lot of mistakes, of course, because I'm not a native speaker"

SEGMENT 547:
Summary: Spanish is a very unique learning experience. There are a few lessons that I think we can all take away from my experience learning Spanish. The first one is the fact that I...

SEGMENT 548:
Summary: I. never listen to or read anything in Spanish when I was learning.  I. never listened to or reading anything inSpanish when I were learning.

SEGMENT 549:
Summary: "If I had just done an extra hour a day of listening or reading, I would have learned so much," he says. "I would have gotten used to other people's style of speaking" "I didn't do this when I was learning Spanish and that caused it to go slower than it should have gone. The second lesson is that it's really important to challenge yourself with something harder in order to progress"

SEGMENT 550:
Summary: The podcast is called Sweet and Simple Spanche. You can listen to it on Apple or Spotify. If you're learning Spanish, that podcast will be very helpful for you.

SEGMENT 551:
Summary: It took me a couple of years before I could eventually understand basically everything in those situations. that challenge made me progress and reach the next level. It worked the same way when I moved to Mexico and I started getting some practice being with groups of Mexicans.

SEGMENT 552:
Summary: You need to listen to things that are harder than your current level. You can also use my US Conversations Podcast. Of course, that's even harder than the advanced episodes because two people are talking.

SEGMENT 553:
Summary: You don't need to use... 

SEGMENT 554:
Summary: high content for them. 

SEGMENT 555:
Summary: You can just listen to normal videos, people speaking fast, and videos, podcasts of two people or three people talking. You can listen to whatever you want, but challenge yourself in order to progress. And lastly, the third lesson. Is that motivation is everything. "I'm gonna complete the challenge.  learn Italian, but I'm still gonna finish the challenge," he says. "I'm not going to give up. I'm not giving up."

SEGMENT 556:
Summary: But... 

SEGMENT 557:
Summary: "I can see how big of a difference it makes when you're not motivated to learn," he says. "Even though I'm doing it for two hours every day, I'm not seeing that much progress"

SEGMENT 558:
Summary: Find your motivation and keep your motivation level up. Find your motivation for learning English or learning Spanish if you decide to check out my wife's podcast, for example.

SEGMENT 559:
Summary: This makes all the difference. Alright, that's it for today. I'll be back in a week or so with a new post. Have a great weekend.

SEGMENT 560:
Summary: I hope you enjoyed hearing about my experience with Spanish and I hope you learn something from my experience. If you want to learn Spanish, remember to check out my Life's Podcast, Sweet and Simple Spanish.

SEGMENT 561:
Summary: Use the weekly US Conversations podcast to test your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN.com or wherever else you want to listen to it. I'll leave the link down below in the episode description.

SEGMENT 562:
Summary: This is a very Spanish-related episode to me. And hopefully if you learn Spanish, that will help you out. You can get my training if you want my help with your English listening skills or pronunciation skills. It's not the traditional way that people learn languages. and it's not easily replicable. Something that's replicable is something that you can replicate. So you probably won't be able to do this with another language.

SEGMENT 563:
Summary: Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast. Today we talk about one of the topics that people ask about most related to English. As an English teacher, this question is probably one-of the top three questions that I receive.

SEGMENT 564:
Summary: A phrasal verb is a phrase with a verb and a preposition. So for example, look up. Right, I look... just like the word, I don't know, illuminate.

SEGMENT 565:
Summary: When you see a phrasal verb with the verb get, like get up, for example, you shouldn't think that that's in any way related to other get verbs. You should think of them as just normal vocabulary, and you should make sure that you're not trying to associate them with each other.

SEGMENT 566:
Summary: Just because two phrasal verbs have the same verb doesn't mean that they're related. Native speakers don't associate them with each other. If you ask native speaker about phr asal verbs, they're gonna look at you with confusion because they don't know what these are. Native speakers don't even know what phrasal verbs are. They just feel like they're using normal words. They say two words, a verb and a preposition together with the phrase.

SEGMENT 567:
Summary: You should just feel like you're using a normal vocabulary word when you use a phrasal verb. So you should do the same thing. And if you do this and you understand this point, then the logical conclusion is that you... need to learn phr asal verbs just like you learn normal vocabulary.

SEGMENT 568:
Summary: Okay, there's no difference here. 

SEGMENT 569:
Summary: You don't need to view phrasal verbs as this big separate topic that requires tons of explicit instruction. You should treat them like you treat normal vocabulary.

SEGMENT 570:
Summary: No, just treat them. 

SEGMENT 571:
Summary: There are hundreds if not thousands of phrasal verbs in English. When you hear vocabulary words that are new for you and you hear them in context when someone is speaking or when you're reading something, this will be your introduction. When we say that something sticks, those are blood muerte. it stays in that place and doesn't go away. So eventually it will stick. Once you've heard it in context enough times. If you don't understand it and then you look it up, you probably forget it after that, but then you'll hear it again if you're doing a good amount of listening practice. You just treat it like a normal vocabulary word. Okay?

SEGMENT 572:
Summary: "You don't have to study these separately. You create lists of phrasal verbs that you go through and try to memorize," he says.

SEGMENT 573:
Summary: No. 

SEGMENT 574:
Summary: Learn them through listening practice. Learn them through your reading practice. Okay? Okay? Learn them. Through your reading. Through the reading. By yourself.

SEGMENT 575:
Summary: There is one technical aspect of phrasal verbs. Some of them are separable and some are inseparable. With some of them you can put the object between the two words. For example, I can say put down the weapon.

SEGMENT 576:
Summary: I. ran into Mary at the store. I can't say I ran Mary into at the shop. I'm not sure if I ran into her at the grocery store.

SEGMENT 577:
Summary: You should learn phrasal verbs naturally through exposure, through listening, reading and and don't worry about them. I wouldn't recommend that because that doesn't work well for vocabulary. So that phrase of verb is inseparable. So there is that technical aspect of phrase of verbs. Students often ask me why do you put our way? the word get there? What does the word up mean? And they try to separate the meaning of the two words, verb and the preposition. And that's something that you need to get out of your mind immediately. Just learn the phrase as one vocabulary phrase that you don't analyze for its individual words. Some people don't like this answer this advice. They want some interesting trick or tip. urally through exposure. I know that some people don’t like this.

SEGMENT 578:
Summary: I want to start to do a second podcast episode every week, but in this other episode, I want to focus on phrasal moves. However, it's not going to be just me talking about the phr asal and giving you a big explanation.

SEGMENT 579:
Summary: Out. 

SEGMENT 580:
Summary: "I'm not sure yet. introduce them and give you their moons and then I'm going to talk naturally about something else," he said.

SEGMENT 581:
Summary: "I will include these phrasal verbs that we're looking at, that particular episode, in my speech when I'm talking" "I'll include them multiple times in different sentences in a natural way" "Maybe I'll talk about topics like I do these episodes or maybe all tell stories or talk about different experiences"

SEGMENT 582:
Summary: And then we're also looking at... 

SEGMENT 583:
Summary: The phrase act up has two meanings. One is when kids are not behaving well and they're kind of throwing tantrums or being disobedient. The other is when they're acting up all week. And maybe we want to practice with those two meanings of that phrase.

SEGMENT 584:
Summary: With these episodes, you're going to get the same listening practice that you're getting in my normal episodes because I'm going to be talking to you in English. I'll talk slowly and clearly like in these episodes and I plan on providing the transcript to you. You're getting extra listening practice but with this listening practice You're also getting the benefit of hearing these phrasal verbs used in a natural context and repeated multiple times during There are many phrasal verbs in English. I'll do my best to just naturally include those in the episode. Remember that if you need my help to understand native speakers, when they... in a natural way. "I'm going to introduce them to you and give you an example sentence or example sentences probably. But then after that, it'll just be listening practice with those phrasal verbs mixed it"

SEGMENT 585:
Summary: "I just want to explain to you how this type of episode fits in with my philosophy on how to learn phrase of it. Because like I mentioned, I don't think you should focus on them as just something you need to memorize lists," he said.

SEGMENT 586:
Summary: I think that these episodes will be a little bit shorter than my normal episodes. And I hope to be able to give you the transcript as well. I'm not sure about that, but I think I'm going to try to do that.

SEGMENT 587:
Summary: I don't think the topics will be as free and open as some of my topics that I talk about in these normal episodes because I have to strategically talk about things that allow me to use that brazil verb. I kind of have to make sure that I can fit these brazil verbs into my topic. I might have to tell more stories and Give more experiences instead of just General topics.

SEGMENT 588:
Summary: I don't know. 

SEGMENT 589:
Summary: The practice is the same for you. You don't have to do anything different, right? You just Listen and use the transcript if you need to repeat the episode and you'll be getting exposed to phrasal verbs while you do that.

SEGMENT 590:
Summary: "I think I'm going to try to release these phrasal verb episodes on Fridays. I'm gonna try this out this is a new idea and I think it'll be helpful" "I don't need to commit to continuing these episodes forever"

SEGMENT 591:
Summary: If you can understand me, which can't understand other English speakers speak, then I recommend that you join my membership. I help you understand different phrases, words that might be hard to understand for new people.

SEGMENT 592:
Summary: "I'm not committing to doing this forever. I'm going to try it out for a little while. If I'm not interested in them, then I'm just going to stop," he said.

SEGMENT 593:
Summary: "Let's try it out. And if you like them, if people like them as much as normal episodes, then I'll continue with this idea," he says. "Probably after a couple months, I'll take a look at the statistics and make the decision"

SEGMENT 594:
Summary: "I feel like it's time that I give that practice, that natural exposure. I've received so many questions about phrasal verbs, and I always tell people that we need to learn them through natural exposure," she says.

SEGMENT 595:
Summary: I hope that this episode was interesting for you. Remember that if you need my help to understand native speakers when they speak past Then make sure to join my membership so you can get my specialized training that will help you listen better. If you become a listening time family member, you'll get my advanced podcast of the service. CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Please submit your best shots of the U.S. for next week. Visit CNN.com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery.

SEGMENT 596:
Summary: If you feel ready... 

SEGMENT 597:
Summary: Make sure to sign up for US conversations podcast. You get to hear me talk to different people from around the country about different topics. It's really educational and it's great practice for your listening.

SEGMENT 598:
Summary: This is the 154th episode of the Listening Time Podcast. Today, we're going to talk about how to learn phrasal verbs in English. We'll also talk about something that many of us struggle with. Someone has imposter syndrome. This means that you have difficulty with it. It's something that causes you some problems. So this is something that many of us struggle with.

SEGMENT 599:
Summary: Many perfectionists have a very high standard for themselves of how they want to do things. This might contribute to this imposter syndrome. The word imposter is like the word fraud that I already explained. It means someone is pretending to be someone else that they're not.

SEGMENT 600:
Summary: People who are perfectionists don't need their own standard of perfection. Some people have a more neurotic personality like me. Someone who's neurotic experiences a lot of self-doubt. They doubt themselves too much. A person's family might also affect this so maybe someone might experience post-serendrum if they grew up in a family that expects very high achievement. Or maybe your family is filled with people who are very successful. When you make a name for yourself, this means that you succeed and so people might know your name because you've succeeded. In some cases, the author has had success in some field. In other cases, he has had a negative impact on his or her career. In one case, he had a positive effect on his career in some way.

SEGMENT 601:
Summary: A fraud is someone who's kind of like a fake. They're not legitimate. So this person might feel like they're a fraud. Maybe you have people like that in your family and that can contribute to. this feeling.

SEGMENT 602:
Summary: People feel like they don't have the competence or the skills to perform that job. People compare themselves to other people in an unhealthy way. Or maybe your family is very critical. And maybe they criticize you unfairly. CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 603:
Summary: "They're unfit. They can barely compare other people and themselves. And they always come to the conclusion that other people are better than them," he said.

SEGMENT 604:
Summary: I think it's good to question ourselves. That's healthy. Right? So that can also cause imposter syndrome. If we experience this... what will usually happen is we doubt ourselves too much.

SEGMENT 605:
Summary: We should always analyze our thoughts, our actions. That's good. However, there's a healthy way to question yourself and analyze yourself. And there's...

SEGMENT 606:
Summary: unhealthy way to do this. 

SEGMENT 607:
Summary: If you are constantly doubting yourself and constantly questioning your own success and everything that you've done and you don't think you're legitimate, then you're going too far, right? You're over doubting, so to say. When you think like this, you just constantly doubt yourself and you lose confidence in your own abilities. And another thing that might happen is you will probably attribute your success to luck. So you think your

SEGMENT 608:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 609:
Summary: People might be successful, but when they look back, they laugh at their different successes, they invalidate them. You're attributing your success luck. So that's another thing that can happen. And another way that it might affect people is they have this lingering feeling when you say something lingering. This means that it stays there.

SEGMENT 610:
Summary: "I don't think they deserve the success that they have. and that they don't deserve to be here," he says. "I think they're a great team and I'm proud of them," he adds.

SEGMENT 611:
Summary: Many people experience this in different areas of their life. It doesn't really go away when it should. So they have a lingering feeling that they're going to be found out.

SEGMENT 612:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 613:
Summary: People might feel like they're going to be found out that people are going to discuss. that they're from, they're an imposter. So that's something they might feel. And one other way that it affects people is that it might limit them from actually moving up in their career or whatever. It might stop them from trying. new things or starting new projects because they feel they can't do these things. Let's talk about some ways that we can. can affect people. And lastly, let's talk  about how we can help each other.

SEGMENT 614:
Summary: We're very good at evaluating our weaknesses or at least a lot of people need included. We're very self-critical. So I'm veryGood at seeing what I do wrong, what I'm not good at. That's easy for me, for example.

SEGMENT 615:
Summary: Some people might have the tendency to go in the opposite direction and maybe they're too prideful. However, we should also honestly adopt... are strengths as well.

SEGMENT 616:
Summary: For people that are really self-critical, it's good to honestly evaluate your strengths and see what you're good at. Write down a list of your strengths, things that you do well, or things you've had in success with. Usually it's the other types of people who are too self- critical.

SEGMENT 617:
Summary: It might even be a good idea to ask other people around you that are people that love you, right? Not people that want to bring you down. Ask some other people what types of strengths they think that you have.

SEGMENT 618:
Summary: Not including... weaknesses here because that can sometimes be hurtful to hear other people talk about all your weaknesses, right? I'm just addressing this imposter syndrome here.

SEGMENT 619:
Summary: Ask other people to talk to you about your strengths and tell you what they think you're good at. This can help you see that you are good at something.

SEGMENT 620:
Summary: Poster syndrome is a condition that affects people in different seasons of their lives. We'll talk about why some people have Poster syndrome and how it affects us.

SEGMENT 621:
Summary: We want to be humble with this. We want to have humility. and not be prideful, not be puffed up. So that can be a helpful activity. Another thing we can do is we can humbly celebrate our successes.

SEGMENT 622:
Summary: "We want to celebrate our success with humility, not just try to invalidate everything and say...  So we want to humbly do this," he says.

SEGMENT 623:
Summary: Sometimes it is luck. Obviously. But there are many things that we do to contribute to our own success. Maybe you can view your successes as accomplished goals. That's something to celebrate.

SEGMENT 624:
Summary: There might be luck involved. You were in the right place at the right time or whatever. No, other people help us on our way to success. you, only you.

SEGMENT 625:
Summary: We're not the complete author of our success. We're not God, right? So we want to recognize that. But really celebrate when you accomplish a goal. that you had and you achieved something and don't look at it as I'm a genius.

SEGMENT 626:
Summary: . Another thing we can do is to not focus on  the bad news. We need to focus on the good news. The good news is that we have a lot of it.

SEGMENT 627:
Summary: "If we have this idea of perfection and that we have to meet this very high standard, we're always going to feel like we're not good," he says. "So don't have this standard, right? Try to be as close as possible to perfect. But don't expect yourself to be perfect," he adds. We don't have to always refrain from comparing ourselves because comparing ourselves to other people can motive us sometimes. When you look up to someone, this means that you admire certain qualities in that person. And so you kind of want to be like that too.  e. e.   e. i. e else.  i. a.  a. i, a. e., a. b, a, an. e, a b, and a. c.

SEGMENT 628:
Summary: This is a... 

SEGMENT 629:
Summary: "There's nothing wrong with that type of comparison if we're using it to motivate ourselves to be better," she says. "It's a good thing to look up to people who have good qualities and to use that as motivation to say, oh man, I really want to be a good husband"

SEGMENT 630:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 631:
Summary: It's not good to just look at other people and think that we're always way worse than everyone else. So that's another thing we can do compare ourselves in a healthy way use other people to motivate us.

SEGMENT 632:
Summary: Always learn, always update your skills when necessary. Challenge yourself to learn more, be better and the competence will follow after that. If you start a new position you're probably not going to have all the skills necessary at the very beginning to succeed.

SEGMENT 633:
Summary: "I didn't know what I was doing, but I continued doing it and learning and getting better and learning more about English, general," she says. "Eventually I was able to... do my job better, answer people's questions better, etc. Right?"

SEGMENT 634:
Summary: So that's it for today. So those are some ways that we can try to overcome and combat imposter syndrome. Right? Right?

SEGMENT 635:
Summary: I hope you enjoyed this episode and I hope it gave you some ideas on how to maybe approach this imposter syndrome. maybe not let it really keep you down and affect everything you do, right? If you feel ready to practice with harder content, my advanced episodes in which I speak fast, you can sign up for those by becoming a listening time family member.

SEGMENT 636:
Summary: I'm sure you'll enjoy this topic. I'm definitely not the authority here and I'm not giving you advice related to psychology or health or anything like that. I am just talking from experience.

SEGMENT 637:
Summary: English, English spoken fast. 

SEGMENT 638:
Summary: You can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast if you want to practice with my conversations with other native speakers. The link is down below. That's patreon.com slash US Conversation.

SEGMENT 639:
Summary: You know what time it is. It's listening time. All right, let's get started. Are your ears ready? You know the time.

SEGMENT 640:
Summary: This is the 172nd episode of the Listening Time Podcast. In this episode Connor talks about imposter syndrome. Connor: I want to talk about how I increase my motivation to achieve goals. When I remove things that are really stimulating and pleasurable that I can do on an issue. everyday basis when I remove those things, then the other activities that I do that are related to my goals or that are the things that I want to do but have trouble starting them. Those things, these good activities, I'll call them become the most interesting things in my day. TV and movies will always be preferable if I have them in my day. It will be harder to do the things that are related to my goals that don't give me as much pleasure right now. Maybe you can remove one of these things. "One of my goals, one of the things that I really want to do is to read consistently," she says. "It's not like I need to force myself to do this."

SEGMENT 641:
Summary: "Reading a book is not as easy. It takes more effort, it takes more brain power, more attention. You know what I'm talking about," he said.

SEGMENT 642:
Summary: "I really like reading and I have the goal of reading consistently throughout my life," he says. "I really look forward to reading because this is my main form of entertainment" "I think that there are ways that we can actually increase our motivation"

SEGMENT 643:
Summary: This is where I 

SEGMENT 644:
Summary: "I get all of that from my books because I really like to read classic fiction, classic novels," he says. "I can get that interesting story, the interesting plot with interesting characters"

SEGMENT 645:
Summary: "I don't think about watching TV or movies. I save a lot of time and I spend more time reading," he said. "Because I don't have that I have more motiva to do other things" "I have more motivation to actually socialize with people in the real world," she says. "Social media can kind of make us feel like we are interacting with the world" "We're consuming things from other people maybe we're even talking to our friends on social media"

SEGMENT 646:
Summary: "I've noticed that since I took away this social media, I have had a bigger interest and socializing with people," he says. "I'm more interested in talking to people, going out and spending time with people" I. like to talk about this topic and I'm sure that in this episode today you'll get some ideas made about how you can increase your own motivation. So that's what we'll talk about today and if you feel motivated to practice with my advanced podcast episodes.

SEGMENT 647:
Summary: removed social media from my life. 

SEGMENT 648:
Summary: I don't think that that's a coincidence. I think that before that time, I was able to just feel like I had interaction with people via social media. But when I took that away, I had that desire for socialization. And I actually felt motivated to go out. meet people.

SEGMENT 649:
Summary: English anymore. 

SEGMENT 650:
Summary: Before he watched a lot of YouTube in English. But now because I don't do this, I have to watch things in French because that's the language that I'm learning. And this is great because I'm actually learning French, which is my goal. Watching videos in French is the only way that I get to watch YouTube nowadays. I'm not only doing it to learn French. I feel motivated because it's actually fun, right? It's like watching YouTube in English except it's harder. So that's the way I do it. I watch it in French. "In my house there isn't a lot of entertainment to be honest," he says. "Because of that I feel more motivated to get out of the house, to go be in the real world"

SEGMENT 651:
Summary: Make sure to sign up to become a listening time family member and you'll get two new advanced podcast episodes every month. This is the perfect practice for you to start to understand fast English.

SEGMENT 652:
Summary: "I don't have a lot of really fun entertainment here and so this helps me to be motivated to actually go out and do things outside" "I've been running... more recently and I've been feeling really motivated to run because it gets me out of the house. I get to be outside" "I feel motivated to go outside to run because it's actually funner than being here at my house," she says. "I don't have all of these easy sources of addictive entertainment here. So that's actually helped me be healthier" "I want to do the activities related to my goals," he says. "So this is a goal that I have to spend more time outside my house. So that's how I can feel more motivated to achieve that goal" "I take away the easier activities that are more pleasurable. those activities, I take away those activities," he says. "I don't want to make it too hard for people to do the things they want to do"

SEGMENT 653:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 654:
Summary: You learn a lot about the country with this podcast and it's a lot of fun. And this is a great introduction to listening to two people talking and not just one.

SEGMENT 655:
Summary: So the link to sign up is also down. 

SEGMENT 656:
Summary: "If you disagree with me about this, that's perfectly fine. Okay, if you disagree ... that's fine," he says. "I'm not going to get mad at you for disagreeing with me."

SEGMENT 657:
Summary: This episode is about motivation. If you feel the motivation to start practicing with those, then make sure to become a listening time family member. But maybe this episode got you thinking about some things that can help you increase your motivation. Alright, remember that if you want my advanced episodes, if you feel like you need more motivation, then you can subscribe to my channel.

SEGMENT 658:
Summary: That is down below. 

SEGMENT 659:
Summary: If you feel motivated to practice with my...  I've got some ideas for you. Check out the video below to see what I've come up with.

SEGMENT 660:
Summary: The daily transcript is a written version of each day's Daily Discussion. Use this transcript to help students with reading comprehension and vocabulary. Use the weekly Newsquiz to test your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN iReport.

SEGMENT 661:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 662:
Summary: "How do I increase my motivation to achieve my goals to do things that I want to do?" "What do I do to make sure that I'm always on top of my game?" "How can I make sure I don't let anything get in the way of me achieving my goals?"

SEGMENT 663:
Summary: Many of you are not going to like the answer to this question. So that's okay. It's okay if you don't agree with me about this. However, I think that there are some things that you can still apply to your own life and you'll see some benefits. Listen to episode 166 of the Listening Time Podcast. The topic of today's episode is inspirational books. I hope that you're inspired to practice your English today.

SEGMENT 664:
Summary: So I'm sure 

SEGMENT 665:
Summary: CNN.com's John Sutter takes a look at some of the most famous inspirational quotes of all time. Sutter: "You'll see people post these quotes to inspire, motivate people quotes from famous people throughout history"

SEGMENT 666:
Summary: In hockey, you shoot the puck into the neck to score a goal. You have to try in order to score. And in this case, in hockey, it's called agoal. Sorry, I don't watch hockey.

SEGMENT 667:
Summary: "If you're afraid of failing, then you should think about the fact that If you don't even try, then ... you will have a 0% chance of succeeding" "If we're always afraid to fail, then we won't try things" Before this podcast, I had created other content that did didn't do very well. I didn't have much success and other things actually failed. And so I easily could have said, well I don't want to fail again and have a podcast that I start and then I stop because no one listens to it.

SEGMENT 668:
Summary: "If I had been afraid of failing, then I never would have started this podcast," he says. "I know I will fail probably many times because I want to take a lot of shots and miss some"

SEGMENT 669:
Summary: A lot of the greatest athletes who have scored like the most goals or the most baskets, basket mall, a lot of times these are athletes that have actually missed like more goals or more baskets than most other people.

SEGMENT 670:
Summary: Kobe Bryant made tons and tons of shots because he wasn't afraid of missing and that's why he became one of the greatest players of all time.

SEGMENT 671:
Summary: Ralph Waldo Emerson: Do not go where the path may lead go instead where there is no path and leave a trail. I partially agree with this because sometimes being a trailblazer can be a great thing. A trailblazer is someone who is the first person to make this path. They're the first ones to do it and then people follow you after you do it. Sometimes people have great success because they think outside the box as we say.

SEGMENT 672:
Summary: I think that this can sometimes be a bad thing when you decide that you want to do things. Completely differently from how everyone else did them before you. I think that Oftentimes this can leave you to fail. And that happens sometimes. However, I also think that you don't need to do this.

SEGMENT 673:
Summary: "I want to be like her. I want to try it the way he did it. to do things like him. And maybe you just follow their path," she says.

SEGMENT 674:
Summary: And that's great. 

SEGMENT 675:
Summary: "Sometimes this leads to a great product and the person becomes a really, really successful entrepreneur," he says. "But probably more often than not, that doesn't happen," he adds.

SEGMENT 676:
Summary: "There are times when being a trailblazer can lead to great success" "I think that in a lot of other cases it's good to just use role models and examples" "There's a lot of things that I want to talk about," he says. "There's so much that I don't know what to say. I just want to be able to talk"

SEGMENT 677:
Summary: This month's bonus episode. in a bonusepisode. So if you want part two, then you'll have to sign up for my membership. You'll get my specialized training, my listening practice seminars.

SEGMENT 678:
Summary: H간 bla bla bla, 

SEGMENT 679:
Summary: Many of life's failures are people who did not realize how close they were to success when they gave them. And the first thing that came to mind when I was thinking of different ways I could apply this quote is in language learning. Kes a different amount of time to learn, or more specifically a different number of individual repeated counters with that word. So, for example, maybe one word, you have to hear it 55 times in order to finally know it and be able to use it naturally. And then another word might take 155 times. And you don't know where that threshold is. You don't knows that exact number that you'll have to reach in Many people at an intermediate level, they feel like they're stuck and they're not learning enough new words in order to advance. A lot of times they just want to give up. they get really desperate and they think they need to start all over again, learn from scratch. And what they don't realize is that maybe they've heard this particular word 150 times. Last year you had heard it 55 times, and now this year, you're all the way up to 100. You've heard it more than 100 times this year.

SEGMENT 680:
Summary: to be. 

SEGMENT 681:
Summary: People don't realize that they're close to success and so they get discouraged sometimes. This can definitely happen especially at an intermediate level when they feel like they aren't learning as many words. They need to realize that if they're doing the practice they are getting closer to success. The daily transcript is a written version of each day's featured news stories. Use this transcript to help students with reading comprehension and vocabulary. Use the weekly Newsquiz to test your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN iReport.

SEGMENT 682:
Summary: The purpose of life is to be happy. The Dalai Lama said this, he had his own reasons for saying it was obviously a little deeper than... maybe in terms of vocabulary.

SEGMENT 683:
Summary: how it sounds. 

SEGMENT 684:
Summary: This is something that I disagree with. I know that many people's reasons for saying this are deeper and more complex than just what this quote sounds like. However, even with those deeper reasons or whatever, I still disagree with this.

SEGMENT 685:
Summary: "I don't think that the purpose of life is to be happy. I think that we should all want to beHappy" "If something doesn't make us happy then that means that we will not do many things" Ree. ree, right?  Ree. Ree, ree.  Rees. Rees, rees. rees, Rees!

SEGMENT 686:
Summary: "I'm just talking about this quote. away I see it. So I get that you might think that and you might have been using this for that"

SEGMENT 687:
Summary: I don't think that our primary goal should be to be happy. I think that I've known multiple people who have the score and they try the best to live their life in a way that makes them happy before anything else.

SEGMENT 688:
Summary: "I've seen the effects of this and I have seen that they  they  have   effects," he says. "I have seen the effects of this. And I've seen  that they are very, very bad"

SEGMENT 689:
Summary:  will not do things if those things don't make them happy, even if the result of not doing those things actually hurts other people and actually has a negative impact on even the people that they love.

SEGMENT 690:
Summary: I don't think that we should think of our lives as we'll just... an opportunity to be happy, and that's our ultimate goal. I've seen this where people who have this goal do things or don't do things because they have thisgoal. And because of that, I suffer as a result. And I think it's even necessary to suffer a little bit. Hink that we should accept these negatives while we also aim for happiness. Our purpose shouldn't just be, uh, try to be happy. If that's the ultimate purpose, that means that we will reject these other things.

SEGMENT 691:
Summary: The link to sign up is also down below. And you have the link. So the link to Sign Up is down below, too. The link to the sign-up page is below.

SEGMENT 692:
Summary: "Sometimes those things actually produce a better result and help us and the people around us. And so, I don't know. and deny ourselves and suffer things like that," he says.

SEGMENT 693:
Summary: Parents say that their only wish is for their kids to be happy. I know parents like this who as long as their kids are happy, they support and encourage them to even make bad decisions.

SEGMENT 694:
Summary: I don't think that the ultimate goal should be to be happy. I'm definitely gonna discourage my kids from making certain decisions if I think that those decisions will be harmful for them. And you might disagree with me, and that's perfectly okay. It's great that we have disagreements. You can get my advanced episodes if you become a listening time family member. You can also sign up for my US Conversations podcast by going down clicking on the link below and you'll be able to sign up to listen to my conversations.

SEGMENT 695:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 696:
Summary: Some of these quotes might not be 100% accurate. They might be misquotes as we call them. And maybe some of them might not even be actual things that the things person said, but for some reason everyone thinks that person said them.

SEGMENT 697:
Summary: The first inspirational quote that I want to talk about is you miss 100% of the shots you don't take and this was said by Wayne Gretzky. By the way, we say that you attribute something to someone else. So I'll do that as well. So we're saying that this person said that quote.

SEGMENT 698:
Summary: Conor: I'm going to talk about intercultural marriage. What does this mean? Well a marriage with two people who are from different cultures. Conor: This might happen more at the beginning of the relationship. "Once you learn your wife's language and then this becomes less barrier. and or their language, then it's easier," he says. "It's a very simple process," he adds.

SEGMENT 699:
Summary: "I think there's still a barrier because you speak different native languages," he says. "I remember when I was first dating my wife and I was learning Spanish with her because when I met her I didn't speak Spanish"

SEGMENT 700:
Summary: When you're still learning the language, it can be frustrating and it can make it harder to just understand each other. It can be hard to have fun when you're trying to learn a new language.

SEGMENT 701:
Summary: There are legal processes that are very... frustrating, annoying, when it comes to immigration and getting married and bringing your spouse to your country to live legally, that can be a big issue. Especially if you're from a country like US that has a very big, strict, complicated immigration system, this is not an easy process to go through.

SEGMENT 702:
Summary: You might have a different background and a different... perspective when it comes to many aspects of life, maybe things like goals and happiness. And so I don't think that anyone likes that aspect of marrying someone from another country.

SEGMENT 703:
Summary: "You can teach each other, learn from each other. But it can also complicate things for sure because you are Looking at things from very different perspectives"

SEGMENT 704:
Summary: Intercultural marriage. people that get married and they're from different countries with very different cultures. You might not see eye to eye on certain things, and that might complicate the relationship.

SEGMENT 705:
Summary: One of the hardest things to adjust to when you're in another country or You have to deal with this difference in schedules is The timing of your meals when you eat breakfast lunch dinner or whatever meal. This is really hard for people to adjust.

SEGMENT 706:
Summary: It's more of a thing in Latin America to have a bigger lunch. That's your biggest meal of the day. If you grew up your whole life with a more Latin American meal schedule.

SEGMENT 707:
Summary: It can be hard when it comes to marriages because you have to decide who's habit is gonna rain supreme. Money habits, how you spend or save or invest your money. This can be very different depending on the country that you're from.

SEGMENT 708:
Summary: "You have to work out with your spouse. how you're going to reconcile these differences in these different habits. So that's something that you have towork out," she said.

SEGMENT 709:
Summary: If your spouse comes from a very different culture, they might not agree with how you are living your life with their daughter or their son. Your own friends and your own family might not like their culture, their customs. So it might be harder for your family and your friends to maybe connect it, get used to your spouse.

SEGMENT 710:
Summary: "I'm not saying that all of those things terrible and that they always cause problems," he says. "But...  They're some of the negatives I was able to think of."

SEGMENT 711:
Summary: "I'm just trying to be honest and say that there are some things that are harder when it comes to intercultural marriages," he says. "For me, the positives greatly outweigh the negatives when something outweighs something else" "I usually have a much broader perspective than other Americans," she says. "I've had a lot of experience in places that are very different" "I focus on positives," she adds.

SEGMENT 712:
Summary: from the U.S. 

SEGMENT 713:
Summary: "I'd like the fact that my person... perspective has changed and I can see things differently now. That's something that has benefited my life in general," she says.

SEGMENT 714:
Summary: "I have an excuse to go to Mexico. My wife's from there. You need to visit her family. So it's a good excuse for me to go and travel to Mexico," he says.

SEGMENT 715:
Summary: If you learn a language, especially the language of your spouse, this changes your life. It broadens your perspective. It helps your brain, of course. And it helps you communicate in different ways.

SEGMENT 716:
Summary: Pronunciation is something that I'm very thankful that I have. I'm thankful that my wife was very patient with me while I was learning Spanish, which really helped me. And now I'm reaping the benefits of that at this point.

SEGMENT 717:
Summary: Married to someone from another country teaches you to communicate well with people who are different. If you're married to someone who is from another culture, of course, they're different.

SEGMENT 718:
Summary: I feel like I can communicate more effectively to people from different countries because of my experience with my wife. So this is a great skill that you learn and I feel like this really helped me as a teacher and I think it helps me now even just making this podcast. For me I think about the topic of stress. being content. These are things that I can definitely value in my wife and in a lot of people in her culture. They might have a different relationship to stress and contentment. And I'm able to learn more about how to get better in these areas based on my wife. "It's very interesting, of course, not everything is easy, but it's exciting. It really is exciting and interesting to have this type of relationship," she says.

SEGMENT 719:
Summary: You learn all about the different sound patterns in English. You learn to identify the correct sounds, and you see what sounds you're making that aren't native sound.

SEGMENT 720:
Summary: I help you fix those issues. So if you're interested in all of that, make sure to go down below and click on the link to check out my membership, and of course my advanced episodes are available.

SEGMENT 721:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 722:
Summary: I think I want to end by saying that this type of marriage probably isn't recommended for most people. It presents a lot of challenges, difficulties that most people probably don't want to face. But for some people who are willing to... overcome the challenges of an intercultural marriage.

SEGMENT 723:
Summary: Most people would probably benefit from having a less complicated marriage. It probably makes more sense to get married to someone from their own culture their own country. It's probably not recommended for most people.

SEGMENT 724:
Summary: I want to remind you that if you want my pronunciation training then make sure to join my membership and we count this anytime, super member or any of the higher tiers. I'll help you improve your pronunciation. and see what the differences are between your pronunciation and native speakers pronunciation. "It's great practice. want to practice with my conversations with other people from around the US, it's a lot of fun," he says.

SEGMENT 725:
Summary: The Daily Discussion is a weekly, live, online discussion of stories you saw on CNN iReport. This week, Jarrett ponders the case of a man who fell asleep in the middle of a debate.

SEGMENT 726:
Summary: "I want to start with the negatives. I think it's always good to end on a good note. We use the phrase end on the good note to mean that you end with the positives," he says. "I want a positive thing, positive topic, or whatever"

SEGMENT 727:
Summary: Intercultural marriages have things that are great about them and things that can be hard. So let's start with the negatives and then we'll talk about the positives.

SEGMENT 728:
Summary: the 

SEGMENT 729:
Summary: The language barrier isn't for 100% of intercultural marriages, but for many of them it is. So if you speak a different native language than your husband or wife speaks, then of course there's going to be this language barrier.

SEGMENT 730:
Summary: This is the 162nd episode of the Listening Time Podcast. This time we're going to talk about life in the future. Connor will be talking about his new book, which is due out next month.

SEGMENT 731:
Summary: Even in the most remote places people watch our movies and listen to our music. That's part of globalization and one thing I think will happen is I think that travel will be easier in some ways.

SEGMENT 732:
Summary: "There are always projects that are in progress to create new trains and high speed railways and new modes of transportation, new ways to get places faster," he said.

SEGMENT 733:
Summary: I think that that's the trend. 50 years ago we couldn't reach as many places as we could reach now with the same amount of ease. So I think that in the future this will continue and travel will be even easier in that way. There are many countries that can't really receive many tourists because they are very poor or have major political issues. I think that a few decades or whatever some of these places will have developed enough so that they can. receive turists. That means there will be more places to go to more travel destinations.

SEGMENT 734:
Summary: The younger generations today in different countries are probably more similar to one another than our grandparents generations were. That's not a huge negative of course, but for someone like me who's really interested in seeing different and unique things, that can be a little more boring.

SEGMENT 735:
Summary: English will become a stronger and stronger presence around the world. Minor languages will start to disappear. These are just guesses. I'm sure I'll be wrong on a lot of these.

SEGMENT 736:
Summary: I think that English will grow up. stronger every year. languages that have a very small group of people that speak them, or even languages that are not that small, but the people in those countries are starting to speak English more. That will also contribute to those languages kind of dying out over time.

SEGMENT 737:
Summary: Some people say that it will be Mandarin Chinese in the future or some other language. Some people say it will also be in English or French. Others say it could be in Spanish or Italian.

SEGMENT 738:
Summary: But I disagree. 

SEGMENT 739:
Summary: I think that English is 100% going to be the global language, but I think that people will still be learning English. I don't think that a few decades from now, everyone will speak English. All the young people around the world will have great English.

SEGMENT 740:
Summary: I don't think that's the case. 

SEGMENT 741:
Summary: I think more people will speak English and there will be more people who don't need to learn English actively. But I think that there are many places around the world right now that have a very low English level. And that's not going to completely change in just a few decades.

SEGMENT 742:
Summary: takes time. 

SEGMENT 743:
Summary: I think that English will be... even stronger presence around the world than it is now. And so I think that people still be learning English. I think maybe I'll have to focus more on the countries and the places that have a lower English level. I don't want to nuke it. sound like this is the end of work for everyone. I know that some people push that narrative, but that's not what I'm saying here. I think that many jobs will change. if they continue with the way they're going right now.

SEGMENT 744:
Summary: "We won't need the same types of workers then that we do now," he says. "We will be able to do more with less"

SEGMENT 745:
Summary: Many people will still always prefer to have a cashier person. But I think that a lot of people will change to self-check out, for example. And so we won't need as many cashiers maybe.

SEGMENT 746:
Summary: I think you get my... point. Right? 

SEGMENT 747:
Summary: There will be a lot more jobs related to technology and automated processes. I think that we will need a lot of cybersecurity workers in the future to help keep things safe and protect things.

SEGMENT 748:
Summary: "I think that we will need plenty of plumbers, plenty of electricians," he says. "I don't think those are going anywhere anytime soon"

SEGMENT 749:
Summary: And one other... 

SEGMENT 750:
Summary: I think that overall in general people's health will decline and treatments will multiply. This is just my prediction, my opinion. I could be wrong.

SEGMENT 751:
Summary: Some things have really gotten much better, like sanitation and plumbing, things like that. People have gotten worse when it comes to their posture, sitting down for many hours every day in front of a computer, looking at screens all day.  ..  ..  ...    ... ...  ... ..   .. ...  .. ..  --   -- - --  --- --- - -- - - ---- - - -

SEGMENT 752:
Summary: I'll predict what things might look like if our current trends continue into the future. And remember that you can sign up for my advanced podcast episodes if you feel ready to practice with English spoken fast.

SEGMENT 753:
Summary: Food habits have probably gotten worse all over the world over the years. If you look at many traditional diets around the world, in communities that are more isolated and don't have a lot of contact with industrialization, their diets are much better.

SEGMENT 754:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 755:
Summary: "We don't eat the same quality food that we ate in the past. And that's because as our cities have developed, our processes have developed," he says.

SEGMENT 756:
Summary: As many countries maybe develop their processes and their industries more, it will be the same thing everywhere. We'll have mass production of food and huge farms with practices that aren't the best for health.

SEGMENT 757:
Summary: Right? And... 

SEGMENT 758:
Summary: "I think people's health will get worse. I might be wrong and I hope... I'm from, but that's my prediction," she says.

SEGMENT 759:
Summary: I'm sure there will be a big market for... treating our declining health, unfortunately. And I'm sure that there'll be some breakthroughs in curing certain serious conditions. But I also think that we as just independent people will have to put in the effort to do the research. A lot of people assume that cancer is a death sentence, which means that if you have cancer that means you're going to die. Many people have had cancer and haven't died. And many people have actually... cured, serious cancers. You might not ever hear about this if you don't actually do the research yourself.

SEGMENT 760:
Summary: The link to sign up is down below in the description. That's patreon.com slash listen time. And you can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast if you want to practice with two people talking instead of just one.

SEGMENT 761:
Summary: "We have done great things when it comes to treating cancer, but these aren't widely known," he says. "There is actually, unfortunately, a lot of opposition to these types of treatments and doctors"

SEGMENT 762:
Summary: I think that the same thing might happen in the future. Might have some breakthroughs, hearing some major diseases. But unfortunately, overall, I think that health will decline around the world. So that's kind of a negative prediction that I have about the future, but I'll stop there.

SEGMENT 763:
Summary: Remember that you can sign up for my advanced podcast episodes if you want to practice with fast English. If you become a listening time family member, you'll get two new advanced episodes every month.

SEGMENT 764:
Summary: The link is down below in the description. And if you want my US Conversations podcast to practice listening, just click the link below.

SEGMENT 765:
Summary: I hope that you enjoyed that special episode with my dad. US Conversations Podcast is great practice for those of you who want to reach that level where you can understand more than one person talking. So the link to sign up is also down below.

SEGMENT 766:
Summary: You can support the show on patreon. That's patreon on dot com slash us conversations. And of course you have the transcript for this episode down below as well.

SEGMENT 767:
Summary: The world is already very globalized, which means that we're very connected. People in different countries, different cities, different states are connected, even though we're not all living in the same place.

SEGMENT 768:
Summary: So, uh... 

SEGMENT 769:
Summary: The world seems like a smaller place now because of this connection, this globalization, things are transmitted and go around in different countries very easily. Like for example, our movies and TV shows here in the US are watched everywhere, even in the most remote places on the planet.

SEGMENT 770:
Summary: This is the 173rd episode of the Listening Time Podcast. We're going to talk about creating goals for yourself. This is an idea that I got from running, actually.

SEGMENT 771:
Summary: Make sure to sign up for my US Conversations Podcast so you can practice with my conversations that I have with other native speakers from around the US. Alright, let's get started.

SEGMENT 772:
Summary: I want to talk a little bit about how I do this in my language learning and... how you can do it in your language learning journey. Okay, let's talk about creating mini goals. Like I said, this isn't a new revolutionary idea. This is something that a lot of people talk about, but because I got that idea from my run, and I don't think I've talked about this before. "Knowing that we're achieving goals, we're progressing, and it gives us motivation to keep on going, because we feel like we're actually accomplishing things," she says.

SEGMENT 773:
Summary: "I could see I was making progress with these mini goals. I completed this goal and then I completed the second goal and the third goal," she says.

SEGMENT 774:
Summary: "I want to be able to have come. What I mean is that I want to  have come," he says. "I don't want to have missed out on anything."

SEGMENT 775:
Summary: I was running, I think last week, and this idea came to me based on my run from that day. So what happened was that when I was running and I had gotten through maybe three quarters of my run, I got really tired, I really wanted to...

SEGMENT 776:
Summary: Being able to have comfortable fluid conversations with native speakers without any problem. Being able to talk to people in a variety of different languages without any problems.

SEGMENT 777:
Summary: "That's my goal and that's kind of a daunting goal because I'm still kind of far from that," she says. "I want to be the best I can be," she adds.

SEGMENT 778:
Summary: "I can have conversations in French but they're definitely not fluid, comfortable conversations," she says. "I can talk to people in French, but it's not fluid or comfortable conversations"

SEGMENT 779:
Summary: "I still have a long way to go. So That goal is kind of daunting. However, if I break it up into smaller goals, then it doesn't feel as daunting and I feel like I'm making progress"

SEGMENT 780:
Summary: French is the first language of the French-speaking world. It is possible to have a conversation completely in French with someone who does not actually speak English.

SEGMENT 781:
Summary: I actually did this earlier this week. 

SEGMENT 782:
Summary: "I did pretty well in the conversation I think. I talked to someone in French and that person didn't speak English at all," he said.

SEGMENT 783:
Summary: "I achieved that goal. of being able to talk to someone in French a whole time in French and they don't even speak English," he says. "So that's a great thing that I was able to do and I can say great, I achieved thatGoal"

SEGMENT 784:
Summary: You want to make these mini goals achievement based. You want to have a goal that is based on you. accomplishing something. So goals that  are smaller, that can help you get closer to your ultimate goal of being fluent in English.  goals that. are just based on the amount of time that you do something for. don't work as well for these mini goals in my opinion. I think that we should make goals that are based on achieving something because this also helps you feel like you are progressing like you're getting closer to your goal.

SEGMENT 785:
Summary: Right? So 

SEGMENT 786:
Summary: Language learning is an achievement-based goal, according to the U.S. State Department. The goal is to be able to talk to a native speaker in a language other than your own. The aim is to have a whole conversation with them.

SEGMENT 787:
Summary: A mini goal could be to understand a whole 10 minute video in English with the subtitles and be able to understand everything. That's a cool goal, I think.

SEGMENT 788:
Summary: "My body was telling me to stop, but I actually really wanted to finish the run even more," he says. "So I was trying to find ways to be able to finished the run without stopping"

SEGMENT 789:
Summary: First you have to understand a conversation with subtitles between two people. Then after that you have the goal of understanding a whole conversation without having any subtitles. And of course you can use my US Conversations podcast that    understands a conversation between two people.

SEGMENT 790:
Summary: Once you can understand a video with subtitles, that means that you're actually becoming a better listener and you know more words. That means that your listening is getting even better, you're noticing more details, more sounds, and then when you can understanding a conversation between two people, now your listens are getting better. So these are very simple, clear, mini goals that you can set for yourself.

SEGMENT 791:
Summary: Each of those mini goals takes you closer to your ultimate goal, right? So those are things that you can set for yourself that aren't achievable that can help you divide your big goal up to smaller goals. And then... when you can understand a conversation without subtitles, then you're doing really well.

SEGMENT 792:
Summary: That's what's really cool. 

SEGMENT 793:
Summary: "I look at the corrections from my last conversation with them and I choose a couple of those corrections, things that I said wrong in the last class," she says. "I really focus on saying those things right in this class" "I'm a little bit closer to my ultimate goal so that's one that I just thought of that has been really motivated for me recently," she said.

SEGMENT 794:
Summary: "Correcting one or two errors each time from my last class to this class, right?" he asks. "I'm going to make sure I'm not making the same mistakes in both classes. Correcting the same thing each time."

SEGMENT 795:
Summary: "It really helps you feel like you're taking those steps towards the ultimate goal. So that's another cool mini goal that keeps me motivated," she says.

SEGMENT 796:
Summary: This concept is also useful in a lot of other areas of life as well I thought of just a few like for example. So this is something that's really useful as a language learner.

SEGMENT 797:
Summary: Instead of just having the ultimate goal of, oh, I need more money, or I want to be a lot more comfortable financially, you can create these mini goals that will help you reach your ultimate goal. For example, if you're in debt right now, you... have multiple debts, multiple credit cards, loans that you need to pay off. First, maybe you choose the easiest debt to paid off, and that's your "You've paid off two of your different debts. Now you work towards... the next one. e debts, now I only have four debts," he says.

SEGMENT 798:
Summary: If you have five different debts to pay off, that probably doesn't feel good. If you break it up into mini goals, then you can feel like your ultimate goal is more attainable. Something that's attainable is something that you can reach.

SEGMENT 799:
Summary: You can apply this concept to your financial situation. So you can apply it to your family's financial situation as well. You can also use it to help your friends and family with their finances.

SEGMENT 800:
Summary: How about losing weight? 

SEGMENT 801:
Summary: If you're still 50 pounds overweight, it can feel like a daunting goal to have to lose 50 pounds. But if you break it up into mini goals, like, okay, I want to lose 5 pounds, right? And then you achieve that goal and you feel great because took that first step and then you create your next mini goal. "You're making progress and this is very motivating. So I think you get the point. er, you're makingprogress and this was very motivating," he said.

SEGMENT 802:
Summary: I hope that this episode got you thinking about how you can implement these mini goals in your English learning or other areas of your life. These mini goals can really help you. us on our journey to eventually achieve our ultimate goal.

SEGMENT 803:
Summary: I recommend that you implement those mini goals. Those are great goals that can help take you to your ultimate goal. If you want those advanced episodes, make sure to sign up to become a listening time family member. Link is down below.

SEGMENT 804:
Summary: If you like this podcast please share it, please send it to your friends or family members who are learning English. And then after that, your next mini goal can be to understand one of my US conversational episodes with the transcript and then eventually without the transcript.

SEGMENT 805:
Summary: Instead of focusing on how far I needed to run to reach the end, I broke that goal up. I divided that goal into smaller mini goals that really helped me finish the run. until eventually my last mini goal was reaching the finish line.

SEGMENT 806:
Summary: This is a great topic to talk about in a listening time episode because it's something that can help people with their language learning and in other areas of our lives, right? So I'm sure this will be an interesting episode, a helpful episode for... Hopefully all of you today and remember that if you have trouble understanding native speakers when they speak fast but you can understand me pretty well in this podcast. CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 807:
Summary: The link to sign up is down below and you also have the link down below to signup. So the link to signing up for CNN.com is down down below. The link to the sign-up page is below.

SEGMENT 808:
Summary: Listen to episode 152 of the Listening Time Podcast. Connor: "I hope you're all doing great. I hope you are all doing well"

SEGMENT 809:
Summary: You might be able to hear that the birds are chirping outside. We use the word chirp to refer to the sound that birds make when they sing. I think that it adds some good background noise.

SEGMENT 810:
Summary: "What you really need to do is have discipline and just do things every day when you're supposed to do them," he says. "Whether or not you feel motivated, just do them and then you'll see the results eventually"

SEGMENT 811:
Summary: to this. 

SEGMENT 812:
Summary: In many situations, motivation is as important as discipline. This goes against the predominant idea in the personal development world. I want to talk about a few areas my life in which motivation is equally as important or sometimes more important than discipline. "I'm not trying to say that discipline is less important. Of course not. It's not important.  the predominant idea here," he said.

SEGMENT 813:
Summary: "Most of you know by now that I really appreciate discipline and I really try to be a disciplined person," he says. "I really want to be the best that I can be"

SEGMENT 814:
Summary: This is... 

SEGMENT 815:
Summary: " motivation is extremely important. extremely important, but I don't think that we should downplay the importance of motivation," he says. "To downplay something means to underappreciate it and make it seem less important than it is"

SEGMENT 816:
Summary: "I was motivated for the first 50 days because I thought that I might continue on with Italian after this challenge," she says. "Around day 50, I decided that I wasn't going to continue with Italian, and so I lost motivation" During the second half of this challenge, I wasn't motivated. I was in my mind with somewhere else. I want to have a good day and just enjoy that morning and that day. "I wasn't motivated to really improve a lot because I knew that I wasn't going to continue on with Italian after this," she said. "I was just going to complete this challenge to help other people, but I'm not going to continuing"

SEGMENT 817:
Summary: on with Italian. 

SEGMENT 818:
Summary: "I lost motivation and I wasn't really able to learn as much during those second 50 days even though I was extremely disciplined. So I want to encourage you to make sure that you're disciplined with your language learning"

SEGMENT 819:
Summary: "It's important to visualize your goals, visualize what you want to accomplish with the language that you're learning, and feed your curiosity, make yourself more curious and interested in the language," he says.

SEGMENT 820:
Summary: You're going to be paying much more attention while you're reading and listening. And it will seem like a fun and interesting activity and not just a chore that you have to do.

SEGMENT 821:
Summary: We don't want our language learning to be chore. We want to have these really interesting and exciting goals. For example, so you...

SEGMENT 822:
Summary: Okay? All right. 

SEGMENT 823:
Summary: In 2022, I was living in Mexico and I went to a gym, which was about 10 minutes from my apartment on foot walking. I was extremely disciplined with my workouts during that year. However, I wasn't motivated. I went because I was supposed to go. That's what I needed to do. "I wasn't motivated. I just went in a very disciplined way because that's what I was supposed to do, right? So what were my results? I had very little gains. We like to use the word gains when talking about the gym and working out referring to getting stronger," he says.

SEGMENT 824:
Summary: "I just got a little strong. I looked a little better probably, but I wasn't progressing that much because I didn't really have the goal to reach a certain weight or lift a certain amount of weight," he said. "I wasn't motivated to push myself to lift heavier weight and try new exercises, new lifts" Gue that discipline isn't important. It's extremely important, he says. Gue: "I don't think I've ever been so happy to see a smile on someone's face"

SEGMENT 825:
Summary: "There's a big difference. between someone who's disciplined and goes to the gym when they should" "If you really want to succeed in your career, you need to be motivated" "You need to have discipline in order to be a good worker" Motivation is very noticeable when it comes to the workplace. Motivation is percent. eer, move up and kind of distance yourself from the competition.

SEGMENT 826:
Summary: Things like that. 

SEGMENT 827:
Summary: "It's just not good when someone isn't motivated to do their job," she says. "I rarely see it and it makes my experience worse," she adds.

SEGMENT 828:
Summary: "I had an issue with my car insurance and  I had to go to court," he says. "I'm not a bad person, I'm just not a good car owner," he adds.

SEGMENT 829:
Summary: "I'm going to offer a slightly different opinion than the opinion that you usually hear when people talk about  development world" "You've probably heard a lot about motivation and discipline and so you've probably seen a lot of videos and books related to personal development"

SEGMENT 830:
Summary: "The agent that does my insurance, she really helped me out to kind of solve this issue. And I could see that she was really motivated to help me fix this issue," she said. "She wasn't just doing it because that's her job. She has to do it."

SEGMENT 831:
Summary:  rates refers to the prices that I pay, the insurance company doesn't have the lowest rates. client and even though that insurance company don't have lowest rates, in this case rates refer to the price I pay.

SEGMENT 832:
Summary: "Because I know my agent is motivated to help me and do her job well, I want to stay with this company," she says.

SEGMENT 833:
Summary: I might be paying a little bit more. 

SEGMENT 834:
Summary: When I make content that I'm really motivated to make, I'm excited about the topic. You can hear it in my voice. It's more exciting when listening to the episode. My motivation shows sometimes when I'm talking about topics.

SEGMENT 835:
Summary: I've noticed this. I don't know if you've noticed it or not, but I think sometimes you can hear a difference when I'm talking about something that I'm really interested in. My voice sounds a little different. It's just a funner experience to listen to. Wake up early. and you have more success. So that's another area in which motivation is very important in my opinion. Most people would think this one is all about discipline, but it's not.

SEGMENT 836:
Summary: "I'm not denying that. Of course, however...  Of course," he said. "I'm not denying that. I'm not denied that."

SEGMENT 837:
Summary: I'm very disciplined with waking up early. If I decide I want to wake up early, I do it. However, it's not easy when I actually wake up. It's difficult. these two things.

SEGMENT 838:
Summary: You can sign up for my advanced podcast episodes if you want to practice with real English spoken fast. The link will be down below. You can click on that and sign up to become a listening time family member.

SEGMENT 839:
Summary: When I have something that gives me motivation to start the day, it makes it much easier to wake up. If I know I'm gonna travel that day and have this exciting trip it's easy to wake early. So if you have something fun or interesting planned it makes waking up early a lot easier. Golf is the first thing to get you out the door in the morning, says Rory McIlroy. The golfer says he often had to do chores in order to make time for golf. He says it's important to do things that give you pleasure in the early hours of the morning.

SEGMENT 840:
Summary: And... 

SEGMENT 841:
Summary: Motivation is as important or sometimes more important than discipline. that will help you feel motivated to actually wake up and it will make it easier to stay disciplined and stick to your schedule.

SEGMENT 842:
Summary: I'm not trying to downplay that. 

SEGMENT 843:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 844:
Summary: I hope this episode was interesting for you. If you feel like you need to challenge yourself more with more difficult content, then make sure to be a listening time family member so you can get my advanced episodes. The link is down below in the description that's hreon.com slash listening time. You can also sign up for my US conversations podcast to hear my conversations with other English teachers from around the country. It's really fun

SEGMENT 845:
Summary: The U.S. Conversations podcast is a weekly look at what's going on in the United States. This week, Jarrett ponders the importance of motivation and discipline. This is the 163rd episode of the Listening Time Podcast. Connor talks about his language learning plan for the rest of this year. Connor: I've heard this many times when I listen to different people, YouTubers, podcasters, whoever, talking about being successful. "I want to get more serious about it and actually reach a high level in some different languages," he says. "Maybe next year I'll get to go to France I'll be able to talk to people in French"

SEGMENT 846:
Summary: "I want to listen for this amount of time to content that I really like and that's interesting for me" "I'll probably just keep the subtitles on most of the time" "If I need to, one guy, don't catch a certain word, I'll look down at the subtitles" If you didn't hear or understand it. well, you weren't paying attention. u heard it and understood it well and if you didn’t catch it, then you didn's hear and understand it well. well.

SEGMENT 847:
Summary: French is a language that is kind of similar to English in the sense that you might understand a sentence when you read it. And this isn't the case in Spanish, for example, or Italian. With those languages, if I don't understand something, it's probably because I just do. "I'll get more accustomed to what different words and phrases sound like in real life when people say them," he says. "The biggest thing with this type of pleasure listening, as I call it, is to keep me engaged"

SEGMENT 848:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 849:
Summary: "I want to listen for a long time to content that's very interesting for me" "I'm gonna pause and rewind sometimes if I can't understand something and I want to see what they actually said and look at the subtitles" The bulk of my listening practice is this pleasure listening to things. things that are really interesting for me. And I'm going to spend a lot of time listening to the same people. So listen to theSame YouTuber or podcaster for multiple episodes, multiple videos. "I would call indirect repetition. d again. So this is kind of what I would say indirect repetition," he says. "I would like to see you do it again. I would like you to do it in a different way"

SEGMENT 850:
Summary: I'm going to choose a topic that... is a little bit outside my compad zone and that will have a lot of new words and phrases and expressions. So my idea is to watch videos about French history, for example. So I'm interested in French history. I like history, but this content  Watching a YouTube video about online business or whatever. will be harder than just watching. a YouTubeVideo about onlinebusiness or whatever, right? 

SEGMENT 851:
Summary: "This topic, French history, will have a lot of words that I'm unfamiliar with," he says. "I'm not a historian, I'm just a person who knows a lot about French history"

SEGMENT 852:
Summary: "I'll have fun with it, but it won't be quite as relaxing as my pleasure listening," he says. "I'm going to have to pause and rewind a lot more"

SEGMENT 853:
Summary: So put those. 

SEGMENT 854:
Summary: 15 minutes. I'll probably get through a 5 to 10 minute part of a video. 15 minutes, I'll likely get through an entire video.

SEGMENT 855:
Summary: And what's the purpose of this? 

SEGMENT 856:
Summary: "I want to challenge myself and listen to harder content, learn more new words, and learn things, not just language, but learn about French history, for example"

SEGMENT 857:
Summary: "I think I have more or less my plan for French for the rest of this year," he says. "I plan on spending maybe two hours a day if I can actively learning"

SEGMENT 858:
Summary: I hope and you can listen a lot without needing to pause and rewind too much. I think it's great to include reading in your language learning and not just listening. For me, I think that I'll always do more listening than reading. That's just easier  There is a more formal style when someone writes than when they speak. So that means it's more refined. The vocabulary is a little bit different. It can be less natural.

SEGMENT 859:
Summary: Reading is a great challenge as well. You're going to get exposure to this more formal language, a more formal register. definitely a lot of new vocabulary. And I think it also helps you to notice more details of the language. L help me notice other little details as well that I might not pick up on as easily. l help me to notice the little things that make up my life.

SEGMENT 860:
Summary: "I like reading. So I want to incorporate some of this into my language learning," he says. "I want to focus a little more on listening than on reading," he adds.

SEGMENT 861:
Summary: "I think it's great to repeat things and listen and read things more than once. And so by doing this, I'll see those new words that I saw yesterday again"  that it be strengthened. that it is strengthened. That it is not weakened. and that it does not become weaker. that is not strengthened.  That is not what it is.

SEGMENT 862:
Summary: I think repetition is great, but of course we don't want to spend all of our time with repetition. So that's why it'll probably be 15 to 20 minutes a day for me just repeating what I listen to. "I'm probably not going to do this with the pleasure listening content just the hard listening and the reading content because those are the two parts of this that are going to have a lot of new rooms that I'm not comfortable with," he said. "I want to also speak twice a week. So my goal is to have two conversation classes every week in which I speak only French" "If you make a big mistake and can offer me some feedback and just someone who's a nice person is interesting to talk to. That's what I'm looking for," he says.

SEGMENT 863:
Summary: You should also look for when you schedule classes with teachers. Really focus on conversation. So I think that's what you should look for.

SEGMENT 864:
Summary: "I mean, you're spending money and you don't want to spend money on something that you can just do on your own," he says.

SEGMENT 865:
Summary: You can learn grammar with great online YouTube teachers. You can also do some grammar classes with your teacher. One thing that you can't do alone is have a conversation with a real person who's a native speaker.

SEGMENT 866:
Summary: "I wanted... this plan or not do it exactly like me but maybe do something similar for the rest of this year," he says. "At the end of the year we'll see how much progress we made"

SEGMENT 867:
Summary: The link 

SEGMENT 868:
Summary: "I want to use a teacher to do what I can't do by myself, which is my speaking practice" "I feel like I'm ready to start speaking regu" "It's important to speak consistently. not twice a month. It's better to do it at least once a week and my opinion twice a week is even better and so I want to try that" It's also important to listen without using subtitles or transcript and just practice listening without the aid of anything. And aid just means some type of help  and that's a lot of listening practice.

SEGMENT 869:
Summary: "I haven't even tried it out yet. So that's my plan and maybe you want to follow it. You don't have to, obviously," he said.

SEGMENT 870:
Summary: This is a new project for me, but I think I'll see good results. Maybe it will give you some good ideas about what you want to do with your language learning for the rest of this year. And remember that you can use my advanced podcast episodes and my US Conversations Podcast to giveYou some challenging content.

SEGMENT 871:
Summary: is down below in the description. 

SEGMENT 872:
Summary: Remember that you can sign up from a US conversations podcast to help you reach the next level in your listening. In that podcast there are two people talking and not just one. So that's the next step to helping you understand well, understand when there are multiple people speaking.

SEGMENT 873:
Summary: The link is also down. down below and you have the transcript for this podcast episode down below as well. So if you're interested in that, the link is down below.

SEGMENT 874:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 875:
Summary: "I don't know what my current level is in French because I don't. do any speaking. That's something that I'm going to change this year," he says. "I have a pretty decent level of listening comprehension. So I can understand a lot"

SEGMENT 876:
Summary: At the end of this year, I want to reach a B2 level of French. I haven't been serious about my language learning for probably the last seven years or so. So I can't really say what level I have.

SEGMENT 877:
Summary: This is the 157th episode of the Listening Time Podcast. Connor just got back from another trip in the last episode. Today you'll hear about his trip that he took to Hawaii. "It was definitely a little bit emotional and it wasn't just a normal trip so to say. But we of course tried to have a lot of fun and just really enjoy our family," she said. I'm not a beach person so I don't really like the saying and getting all sandy. I still enjoy Hawaii because of how gorgeous it is. It's a place that has a different vibe. It is just really nice to be there. Oahu is one of the four major islands in the U.S. State of Hawaii. Oahu is the largest island in the state, followed by Kauai and Hawaii.

SEGMENT 878:
Summary: We stayed in a villa on the north side of the island. It wasn't really big but it was really nice because it had access to a pool and jacuzzi.

SEGMENT 879:
Summary: "It was a perfect location for a family vacation. Our kids played together and it was a great place to stay," he says. "You just needed to... walk about, I don't know, 50 meters or so and you were on the beach"

SEGMENT 880:
Summary: The family went to one of the most famous surf spots in the world called Banzai Pipeline. It was a really relaxing environment and our kids were able to go water a little bit.

SEGMENT 881:
Summary: This was the first time I've ever seen a whale breach and it was right there pretty close to the beach. It was amazing to see that. I'll always remember that you. of the ocean and seeing that whale jump up out of the water.

SEGMENT 882:
Summary: Hawaii has some magnificent marine life, the different animals that live in the ocean. And apparently you can see whales there. I didn't know that there were many whales in that part of the ocean, but we saw a couple whales.

SEGMENT 883:
Summary: "My son has always wanted to ride a horse, so this was a cool experience to give him riding that pony there by the beach," she said. "And then for the second part of our trip, we drove down to a different part of the island, the island"

SEGMENT 884:
Summary: My parents have stayed with those friends. I think probably like six different times maybe. The island. isn't that big. So you can drive to the different parts of the island pretty quickly.

SEGMENT 885:
Summary: "It was a fantastic experience staying with them because they have this really cool house with this really nice backyard and... It was a dream house really for us to stay in," she said.

SEGMENT 886:
Summary: "We went to two different beaches pretty close to each other actually they were kind of right by each other and the first day that we went to one of those beaches it was pretty windy and cloudy and the sand kept getting in my son's eyes and so it was a little bit frustrating," she said.

SEGMENT 887:
Summary: "It wasn't the best beach day. However, the next day when we went to that other beach, it was perfect. The weather was nice and sunny. It wasn't as windy and we spent a long time there"

SEGMENT 888:
Summary: "It was a really nice view of the ocean and we love hiking. So that was fun to be able to do that" "We could see the really beautiful blue color of the Ocean because it wasn't just a typical blue"

SEGMENT 889:
Summary: The only negative thing about the trip was that my mom had an emergency situation. She started kind of choking on food and she's not able to chew and swallow very well. So she choked unfortunately and had to go to the emergency room.

SEGMENT 890:
Summary: You never want to. 

SEGMENT 891:
Summary: One of your family members to go to the emergency room when you're traveling. One of your friends to go with you to the hospital if you're in a car accident.

SEGMENT 892:
Summary: "I just... enjoyed that house and our kids really enjoyed it," he says. "I didn't think we were going to eat a lot of really great food," he adds.

SEGMENT 893:
Summary: However, 

SEGMENT 894:
Summary: Hawaii has some fantastic food. My wife in particular really enjoyed all the different food that we tried because Hawaii has a lot of things, fruits, flavors that are perfect for my wife.

SEGMENT 895:
Summary: is you in a way. 

SEGMENT 896:
Summary: I've been away for three hours. That's two episodes in a row. So, I'm sure I'll be back to normal soon. And I hope you're excited to hear about another trip.

SEGMENT 897:
Summary: If you can understand me in this podcast, but you can't understand native speakers, you're not listening to the right show. And before we continue, I want to mention that if you can hear me but not understand me, it's because I'm not talking to you.

SEGMENT 898:
Summary: Poke is a type of raw fish usually served with a crab salad and rice. The poke in Hawaii was different to similar dishes here, but it was really good.

SEGMENT 899:
Summary: You good? 

SEGMENT 900:
Summary: Think of it like that or a sushi bowl with rice and different things. Think of it as a bowl of rice with different things in it.

SEGMENT 901:
Summary: Hawaii is the Poke Capital of the world. The Poke Spot is the most famous Poke Spot because it is located in the heart of the city.

SEGMENT 902:
Summary: I had barbecue chicken and pork which Hawaii is Pretty famous for and that was great as well. We had Asai If you're Brazilian you know what I'm talking about.

SEGMENT 903:
Summary: that and that was also really good. 

SEGMENT 904:
Summary: We had these special doughnuts that you can get in Hawaii. They are actually Portuguese originally, which are called malasadas. If you're Portuguese, you probably know what I'm talking about.

SEGMENT 905:
Summary: Hawaii is also famous for...  And those. And those were also really, really good. And Hawaii is alsofamous for... and those. and those were  good.

SEGMENT 906:
Summary: "We had a lot of good fruit, good tropical fruit, like mango, pineapple, and different types of bananas like apple bananas and ice cream bananas," she says. "I really like that because guava is one of my favorite flavors. desserts, drinks and things like that" "I'm really happy for my dad that he was able to take my mom there one last time. Even if it wasn't a really active trip for him because my mom isn't mobile, she's in wheelchair"

SEGMENT 907:
Summary: "I would highly recommend you to join my membership because it's dedicated to helping you practice your listening skills and your pronunciation skills. It's about the sounds of English," he says.

SEGMENT 908:
Summary: "I'm really thankful that we went on this trip and I'm thankful to my dad that he basically bought this whole trip for us. So that would be really generous of him," she said.

SEGMENT 909:
Summary: I hope you liked hearing about Hawaii and I hope that some of you decide to go there at some point in your life because it's definitely a special place. I highly recommend it as a travel destination to anyone.

SEGMENT 910:
Summary: I hope this episode was good practice for your listening. You can join my membership if you want my help understanding native speakers. The link is down below. That's patreon.com slash listen time.

SEGMENT 911:
Summary: If you just sign up for the lowest level, just $2 a month, you get my listening practice seminars in which I help you train with the different sound patterns that are hard to understand in English. So you get those and you also... get a bonus episode every month.

SEGMENT 912:
Summary: You may have trouble understanding native speakers when they speak fast. You want to practice with that. Have trouble understanding a native speaker when they talk fast? Practice with that too.

SEGMENT 913:
Summary: The link to sign up is down below in the episode description. That's patreon.com slash listening time. You also have the link down there to the US Conversations podcast. If you want to practice with my conversations with other native speakers.

SEGMENT 914:
Summary: This is the 156th episode of the Listening Time Podcast. Connor will talk about a trip he took last week to Hawaii. He will also talk about another trip he's taking in the next two weeks. In the summer it's pretty typical to see temperatures in the low 40s Celsius. The temperature was lower than that, but it still felt hot, which I l "I love the sun and the warm weather, and lately it's been a little bit cold, and it's rained a lot here in San Diego, and I don't like that," she says. "So it was nice to escape from this, and go to a nice... warm desert environment"

SEGMENT 915:
Summary: Why? 

SEGMENT 916:
Summary: The desert is surrounded by mountains and a lot of these mountains had snow on them. Well, because this desert is surround by mountains.

SEGMENT 917:
Summary: It was a little bit surreal. 

SEGMENT 918:
Summary: "It was such a cool contrast. The sun was out. There were no clouds in the sky. It was blue skies, perfect weather, hot, dry. You could feel that dryness in the air"

SEGMENT 919:
Summary: "I really enjoyed just being there and taking in the scenery," he says. "You have a desert, but with palm trees and snowy mountains. So, I really like that"

SEGMENT 920:
Summary: The trip was a gift from my aunt. My aunt is very generous and she often gives me these little vacations different areas. Sometimes I get to choose and usually stay in a resort or a few nights.

SEGMENT 921:
Summary: So that's what happened this month. 

SEGMENT 922:
Summary: "We stayed at a resort, thanks to my aunt, and this resort was very peaceful. There were a lot of married couples on vacation there to be honest, there weren't many kids and it was very quiet," she said. We went to the living desert zoo in gardens. This zoo is a zoo that has a lot of animals and plants that that are kind of like desert wildlife. So some of the animals that they have there are cheetahs and line-os. The coolest thing that we saw there were the giraffes. You can pay to feed them. I think it was lettuce if I remember correctly. It's really cool that you can get that close to the fence.

SEGMENT 923:
Summary: My son loved watching those giraffes eat lettuce out of other people's hands. So that was awesome. I highly doubt that my son would have done that. If we had asked him because I think he would have been a little bit afraid.

SEGMENT 924:
Summary: "He got to pet. feed them. But one thing that he did do was he went into the petting zoo. This is a little area where there are usually goats and sometimes sheep and kids can go in and pet these animals, sometimes feed them"

SEGMENT 925:
Summary: "It's been a while since I've recorded an episode. this trip for me and for my family of course and so we decided to go to Palm Desert" "I'm excited for this episode and I'm sure you'll like it.

SEGMENT 926:
Summary: The zoo has a train set that goes around these tracks through this little model town that is like an old style town from 150 years ago or a hundred years ago. They built this little mini town with these old buildings that you would typically see in the US around the year 1900 or so.

SEGMENT 927:
Summary: We saw two snakes but they weren't animals that the zoo had in exhibits. These were just wild snakes slithering on the ground. The word slither refers to that movement, that snake's make to move. We went outside the city. to the cabazon dinosaurs. A roadside attraction refers to some place right off the highway in the US that you can stop at when you're driving between different cities.

SEGMENT 928:
Summary: So this 

SEGMENT 929:
Summary: A roadside attraction has a lot of different dinosaur figures. One of them you can actually go up the dinosaur because inside. there are stairs that you can climb up. CNN.com's John Sutter talks about vacations and travels again. Sutter: "I'm sure you'll like it and before we start remember that if you want my advanced podcast episodes in which I speak at normal speed then make sure to sign up"

SEGMENT 930:
Summary: "I'm the type of person that is very manic, anxious, neurotic, you might say," she says. "Sometimes my brain just doesn't cooperate with wanting to relax, just do nothing" I don't like that pressure because I feel like I end up not relaxing as much as I should. So I'm trying to get better at this so that I can enjoy these types of mini vacations. Go somewhere for a few days, stay there, and don't do much.

SEGMENT 931:
Summary: "I think it's also good to just take these short trips during which you can just do nothing and enjoy the view around you," she says. "I had a little bit of trouble relaxing because that usually happens with me when I feel pressured to relax" US Conversations is a podcast from CNN's John Sutter. Sutter talks with native speakers from around the U.S. about their experiences in the United States.

SEGMENT 932:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel next week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 933:
Summary: This week's episode is about a trip I'm taking with my family. I won't tell you. where I'm going yet. But hopefully that's a good trip for me and my family as well.

SEGMENT 934:
Summary: CNN's John Sutter takes a trip to Palm Desert, California. The area is known as one of the most scenic spots in the state. Sutter talks about his trip and shares some of his memories of the area.

SEGMENT 935:
Summary: Palm Desert is about two and a half hours to three hours driving from where I live in San Diego. Palm Springs is right next to Palm Desert. It's almost the same city.

SEGMENT 936:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 937:
Summary: This is the 135th episode of the Listening Time Podcast. At the time of recording this still November. However, when this is released, it will be 2024. Connor wishes you all a happy new year.

SEGMENT 938:
Summary: "I want to have a mindset where I consider every day to be a gift that I don't deserve, but God gave it to me," he says. "I'm not only talking about the day, but all the things inside my day" Every good thing that happens to me is not something that I deserve. It's a gift given to me, and I can appreciate it. In general, with this mindset, I want to have more gratitude. "I think I've talked about that in several episodes, but I think it's really important. If you're grateful, your life is going to be a lot better because you actually... appreciate things," she says.

SEGMENT 939:
Summary: "If I'm grateful for every day, I think that I'll enjoy my day more," she says. "I can actually appreciate these details more, because I view them as a gift"

SEGMENT 940:
Summary: "I want to get better at viewing things as gifts. I want to stop and appreciate the good things that I have" "I think that you might also benefit from it because... that I receive and not thinking that I just deserve those things"

SEGMENT 941:
Summary: "I think this is one that a lot of people can benefit from. I think it's a great idea," he says. "I think it will be a great thing for the future of the country"

SEGMENT 942:
Summary: I'm the type of person that thinks about the future all the time. And I think that it's good to think about the Future. There are some great benefits to thinking about thefuture, of course. However, when you think about. the future too much, then you run into some problems.

SEGMENT 943:
Summary: "Because I think so much about the future, the future is always... on my mind because of this I deal with anxiety and I can't always enjoy the present," she said. "I want to be able to enjoy the moment and not be thinking about thefuture something really great or precious is happening right now"

SEGMENT 944:
Summary: Obviously not. 

SEGMENT 945:
Summary: I think it's good to recognize your mistakes from the past for sure. However, I want to have more time thinking about the present, let's say. You might also have another issue of maybe feeling like you're always regretting things in the past.

SEGMENT 946:
Summary: If you're always thinking about the past, things that happened, that can be another issue. Maybe you think a lot about how great the past was and how things aren't good now, but they were. were great in the past.

SEGMENT 947:
Summary: I think that's a common tendency that a lot of people have. We tend to view the past and maybe exaggerate that it was, but really it wasn't that great. So I think that this will be a good topic even though I'm talking to myself here, I am also going to relate it to people in general.

SEGMENT 948:
Summary: So it's easy to fall into that trap. 

SEGMENT 949:
Summary: "It's important not to spend too much time thinking about the future or the past," he says. "If you never think about the past, then you're never going to learn from your mistakes" "It's also important to not just focus on this moment and having fun right now and that's it. ou can have it in the future and in a better form, usually. And that's an important skill to have"

SEGMENT 950:
Summary: "For me in particular, my problem is that I need to. not think too much about the future and instead enjoy the moment more and be present in the moment," he said.

SEGMENT 951:
Summary: "I need to view things that happen to me as not just happening to me, but happening for me. I need to see it as a gift," he says.

SEGMENT 952:
Summary: We often feel like we're just the victims of everything that... happens. That's kind of a normal tendency for people. So things happen for me and not to me.

SEGMENT 953:
Summary: If we view things as happening to us, that means that we complain and get mad and are really negative about things. However, if we start to... think about theseThings as happening for us, meaning they happen for our benefit, then we can actually get something good out of them.

SEGMENT 954:
Summary: Make sure to join my membership so you can get my specialized listening training. You want to start to understand native speakers when they speak fast.

SEGMENT 955:
Summary: Make sure to go down below and click on the link in the episode description. That's patreon.com slash listen time. And if you feel ready to practice your listening with real coverage... 

SEGMENT 956:
Summary: "I want to become stronger from the things that happen to me that aren't so great. I want to use those things. that we don't like that happened," he said.

SEGMENT 957:
Summary: "I want to become wiser and just learn from these things instead of complaining about them and feeling sorry for myself," he says. "By the way, wiser means that you have a lot of intelligence because of experience, your wiser"

SEGMENT 958:
Summary: "Always trying to look for how I can include from the situation. So that's something I want to get better at. And I'm sure some of you might also agree"

SEGMENT 959:
Summary: I want to give you this extra little encouragement here. We can sometimes have a mindset where we want to rush things. So I think that it's better to have the mindset where you are not rushing. There's no hurry here.

SEGMENT 960:
Summary: You're always going to feel like you're failing if you have a mentality. where you want things done really fast, you want the improvement to happen really quickly.

SEGMENT 961:
Summary: If you're practicing your English, you're improving even if you don't feel like it. Every time you do your listening practice and this is helping your brain. It's helping the langua. CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 962:
Summary: US Conversations is a weekly podcast from CNN.com/soulmatestories. Join us for real conversations with native speakers of the U.S.

SEGMENT 963:
Summary: Don't feel like progress needs to be fast because it almost never feels like it's fast, especially once you reach an intermediate level. But it's happening as long as you continue on with your practice. Just trust that you're improving.

SEGMENT 964:
Summary: "Use content that's harder for you. That would be great. And challenge yourself more," he says. "I would love to see you do that more."

SEGMENT 965:
Summary: Do those things, challenge yourself, dedicate more time if you have it, but just be patient with this process. For sure. things, but don't expect to see progress really, really fast.

SEGMENT 966:
Summary: I hope that you enjoyed this episode. Have a good mindset. I'll see you in the new year. Back to the page you came from.

SEGMENT 967:
Summary: If you like this podcast, please share it with your friends and family members and give it a five-star rating and writer review. Have to start this year and remember that if you want my help understanding native speakers when they speak fast, make sure to sign up for my membership. "I want to have a new mindset this year," he says. "The first thing that I want to improve regarding mindset is  mindset. . It's listening time.

SEGMENT 968:
Summary: "I want to view every day as a gift. I already do this and I already understand this. However, I don't act like it all the time," he says.

SEGMENT 969:
Summary: This is the 168th episode of The Listening Time Podcast. Connor thinks about everything that we said, talked about, and I think about how I spoke and the things that I said. "You perform, you do an action, execute an action. So I think about how I performed in that conversation, so to say. And this is something that maybe some people that are more introverted and... a little more self-conscious might do"

SEGMENT 970:
Summary: Not everyone is analyzing every conversation that you had with them. Chances are, you're thinking way too much about the conversation. And usually we are thinking about the little details that the other person has already forgotten.

SEGMENT 971:
Summary: "It just makes me critical of my own self, my performance in that conversation," he says. "I think it's better to just focus on other more important things"

SEGMENT 972:
Summary: I tend to take a long time to write the message and analyze it, reread it, change things, and I do all of that to try to make it perfect before I send it. I think it's very important. out of your, then I prefer. of yourself. So I am enjoying the summer and I hope you are too. Overthinking refers to the act of thinking too much about a certain thing. You're thinking more than you should. So  overthinking. pisode.

SEGMENT 973:
Summary: I don't think we should be careless. important to proofread your messages before you send them. Proofread means to read through something again to check for mistakes and to correct those mistakes.

SEGMENT 974:
Summary: "It's not very pleasant when I have to try to figure out what they're saying because they wrote something wrong or they messed up somewhere in their sentence and they didn't bother to... directed, I don't like to receive messages like that"

SEGMENT 975:
Summary: "I try to think about how the other person will perceive every single word that I write," he says. "I tend to do this where I analyze every word, every punctuation mark"

SEGMENT 976:
Summary: A little excess. And that's a little excess, in reality. Because in reality,  there's no excess. There's just a lot of reality.

SEGMENT 977:
Summary: "I'm probably wasting... a lot of time when I do this and I reread my messages too many times" "I think I do too much proofreading in my opinion. So that's something that I can definitely get better at"

SEGMENT 978:
Summary: "I like planning things and I want my plans to be perfect and I really want to take it," she says. "I don't have as big of a problem with this, but I can sometimes overthink the other person's words and say, well, why did he say this?"

SEGMENT 979:
Summary: "I have a family, I have a wife and kids, so I wanna make sure that everyone is having fun," he says. "I also have to think about my kids' naps schedules at what time they're gonna take a nap"

SEGMENT 980:
Summary: "I'm gonna talk about some things that I have the tendency of overthinking. And I'm the type of person that tends to overthink quite a bit. And this is not a good thing," he says.

SEGMENT 981:
Summary: We shouldn't stress so much about making plans for our free time for our Saturday. We should actually spend more time enjoying that day, enjoying that free time. And one more thing that I tend to overthink a lot. This is the one that I struggle with the most and that is overthinking about the future.

SEGMENT 982:
Summary: "I'm that type of person that likes to plan ahead. So because of that I have the tendency of planning too much and overthinking when it comes to the future" "We simply don't know what the future holds. So we can't prepare 100%. We can't plan perfectly for the future," he says.

SEGMENT 983:
Summary: "We should think about the future and have goals and plans, but we shouldn't think too much about it," he says. "I've made so many plans that didn't actually happen"

SEGMENT 984:
Summary: "I'm actively trying to get better at this so that I don't fall into this trap again and again of making all of these detailed plans and acting as if I can control the future and predict the future," he says.

SEGMENT 985:
Summary: I need to be more flexible and less analytical and anxious when it comes to thinking about the future. I can remind myself not to do this because I want to get better at this. So I'm gonna talk about some different things that I tend to overthink and then at the end I'll also mention some things I don't overthink. "I tried to simplify this process for myself. And so what I did recently was I went to the store and I bought some different black shirts and white shirts. And now I just alternate," he says.

SEGMENT 986:
Summary: "I wear a black shirt one day and then I wear a white shirt the next day. between black shirts and white shirts. Here just blank shirts, this means that there's nothing on them"

SEGMENT 987:
Summary: I like the simplicity and I don't ever have to think about what I need to wear the next day because all I have to do is alternate. I wore black yesterday so I'm gonna wear white today. I love these colors.

SEGMENT 988:
Summary: "I don't need to overthink that at all. The next thing that I don't overthink. Simple huh? So I've made that very easy for myself"

SEGMENT 989:
Summary: I know exactly what I want for breakfast when I eat here at my house and I eat the same thing basically every day. I know that I want my eggs, jorizo, and sausage if We have some. I like oatmeal and I like to eat my wife's homemade sourdough bread with butter. If I have that every single day, I'm perfectly happy.

SEGMENT 990:
Summary: So 

SEGMENT 991:
Summary: I don't have to think about what I'm going to eat for breakfast every day. that takes a little bit of that stress out of my life. And one other thing that I don't overthink is the improvement that I'm making in in my language learning process. I mention this because many language learners, many of you probably overthink this, question yourself. I know that it takes many, many hours to learn a language and I know that when you reach a lower intermediate level, it seems like it takes a really long time to see improvement at that point. So, I don't overthink this. And if you're doing those things, you're improving. Maybe it's little by little, but you're improved if you have that consistent, regular practice.

SEGMENT 992:
Summary: I think that most of us overthink some things in our lives. I know how it works. So because of that... of not thinking too much about.

SEGMENT 993:
Summary: You can sign up for my advanced podcast episodes so that you can start to practice with English spoken podcast. And as always remember that you could sign up to get a free download of this podcast.

SEGMENT 994:
Summary: But of course. I don't overthink this. 

SEGMENT 995:
Summary: "If I'm doing my practice every day, if I'm staying engaged and motivated in my language-learning process, I know that I'm improving," she says.

SEGMENT 996:
Summary: "There's nothing I need to worry about. I can just enjoy the process. So that's something that I want you to do as well. Don't overthink your- 

SEGMENT 997:
Summary: If you are consistent with your practice, don't overthink it. Just relax, try to be engaged and motivated. find content that's very interesting for you and trust the process.

SEGMENT 998:
Summary: I hope you enjoyed this episode. I want to encourage you to use my advanced podcast episodes if you feel ready to take your listening to the next level. Okay?

SEGMENT 999:
Summary: The link to sign up is down below. that's patreon.com slash listening. That's the link to signing up for the patreon service.

SEGMENT 1000:
Summary: time. 

SEGMENT 1001:
Summary: You can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast if you're ready to start practicing listening to two people talking and not just one. It's very educational. I recently did an episode with my brother-in-law who is Irish. "He's actually not from the US, he's from Ireland and  law. law. He's not a US citizen, but he's a citizen of Ireland and law," he said.

SEGMENT 1002:
Summary: This is the 179th episode of the Listening Time Podcast. Today we're gonna talk about a really interesting topic. We're going to talk about overthinking. Phobia is like an intense fear of something that's irrational. Kind of it could be a fear that is about something that is scary, but maybe you have  phobia.

SEGMENT 1003:
Summary: pie spaces. 

SEGMENT 1004:
Summary: "I can understand this phobia because if you can imagine the worst claustrophobic scenario like you're stuck in a coffin or something like that. And so I think if you think of these extreme scenarios... you can see why claustophobia is a real phobia," he says.

SEGMENT 1005:
Summary: have a ton of space. 

SEGMENT 1006:
Summary: "Some people are more irrational about this. So some people were more irrational," he said. "I don't know why people are so irrational about it," he added.

SEGMENT 1007:
Summary: "I have worked many times for many months in a small closet when I... first started this podcast," he says. "I think most people do. Most people love open spaces, but not everyone has a fear"

SEGMENT 1008:
Summary: "I just made do with what I had. When you make do with something, this means that you use what is available to you"

SEGMENT 1009:
Summary: even if it's not much. 

SEGMENT 1010:
Summary: "I just had to make do use that tiny little closet that was the only space I had to go forward this podcast" "If I had claustrophobia I probably wouldn't have been able to do that"

SEGMENT 1011:
Summary: A racnephobia is a fear of spiders. Even people that aren't extremely afraid of spiders, these people still find spiders creepy and kind of, ugh.

SEGMENT 1012:
Summary: They give you this. 

SEGMENT 1013:
Summary: If you don't have a racnephobia you say no I'm not super afraid of spiders. If you just imagine waking up and looking and seeing that you have a huge spider on your chest or on your face I'm sure you would probably 

SEGMENT 1014:
Summary: "I wouldn't say I have extreme arachnophobia, but... I don't like spiders and I hate their legs," he says. "I hate seeing them move. It creeps me out" "I kill plenty of spiders here because... There are a lot of spiders and daddy long legs"

SEGMENT 1015:
Summary: CNN's John Sutter talks about five different phobias in this episode. Sutter: "There are a lot of interestingphobias. There's a very irrational level of fear"

SEGMENT 1016:
Summary: "I don't want a spider to come crawl. That would freak me out. So I don't like spiders and I have seen some pretty big spiders"

SEGMENT 1017:
Summary: "I remember in this small village that I used to go to in Mexico. There were some interesting bugs there. All kinds of interesting bugs and... specifically they had these huge spiders"

SEGMENT 1018:
Summary: you out. 

SEGMENT 1019:
Summary: "I do kind of have a phobia of cockroaches. And it started from certain experiences that I had. past I won't go into detail there," he said.

SEGMENT 1020:
Summary: Ophidiophobia is a phobia of spiders and cockroaches. "Cockroaches are worse than spiders for me. I don't like them," she says.

SEGMENT 1021:
Summary: This is the phobia of snakes. Most of you, this probably sounds like nonsense. You don't know what I just said. I didn't know this word either.

SEGMENT 1022:
Summary: Some people are so afraid of snakes that they can't even... look at them, it just makes them wiggle their body. I definitely don't have the phobia of snakes. Of course, I don't want to go near a venomous snake.

SEGMENT 1023:
Summary: Part two of this episode will be an advanced episode. Part two will be next week. If you want to be a listening time family member, you can do that if you want my advanced episodes.

SEGMENT 1024:
Summary: A lot of people don't like to see snakes slither or see their tongue come out of their mouth. And I don't have a problem with this. When I was a little kid- like six years old or something. Some friends and I were at this. some type of like center where they had snakes and other animals and they put this. huge snake on our shoulders so we could take a picture with it. I don't have an irash problem with snakes. I don't mind seeing them if I know they're not gonna attack me. Let's see. n snakes are dangerous and I want to stay away from those snakes.

SEGMENT 1025:
Summary: The fear of being in a public work. crowded space in which escape may be difficult. So that's a videophobia. Another phobia that is maybe a little less known, like less known than claustrophobia, for example.

SEGMENT 1026:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 1027:
Summary:  agoraphobia might also be a little more related to how crowded things are, how many people are there if you're... middle of those people.

SEGMENT 1028:
Summary: Agoraphobia really focuses on that element of escaping something. And yeah, I think that is also something that is related to claustrophobia. And I think if there... were some type of disaster that happened.

SEGMENT 1029:
Summary: "I wouldn't say I have a phobia. Like I have no problem sitting far from the exit of some crowded building eating dinner, I don't have any problem," he says. "It's more because he has PTSD from being a soldier, war and so he kind of has this trauma of, oh man, I need to always know where the exit is so I can escape and paste something that happens"

SEGMENT 1030:
Summary: So I think it was caused by a hum... 

SEGMENT 1031:
Summary: which I speak at normal speed. 

SEGMENT 1032:
Summary: You need to be able to understand more than one person talking. This is something I struggled with for a long time in Spanish. So the link to sign up is down below.

SEGMENT 1033:
Summary: It's not just necessarily a Gorifobia that comes Raindem, right?  Raindem is known for his war days and not just for his Gorfobia. Raindem has a long history with the military.

SEGMENT 1034:
Summary: Some people just have this without having been In some traumatic situation and there's something like that and they just have a phobia of not being able to escape when in crowded public places. I guess in a way you can understand this nowadays because of all the disasters and terrorist attacks and shootings and things like that that happen and it's kind of in the back of people's minds like oh what if there's a terrorist attack here. "I can get how this phobia has increased in recent years, most likely because of these things we hear about in the news," she says. "Bute to people's fear and make them just a little more uncomfortable"

SEGMENT 1035:
Summary: So one 

SEGMENT 1036:
Summary: Other phobia that I wanted to mention is acrophobia. You might not have heard of this word but I know that you know this phobia which is the fear of heights. So I can definitely identify with you because my wife has this.

SEGMENT 1037:
Summary: I remember being in... 

SEGMENT 1038:
Summary: "My wife did not want to go to the edge of the bridge to look over And this always happens when we're on bridges and things like that she gets vertigo I've never had vertigo so I can't tell you What that feels like"

SEGMENT 1039:
Summary: "I don't have the fear of heights if I don't feel like I'm gonna fall," she said. "Of course, if someone started to push me over the side of the bridge, then I would freak out"

SEGMENT 1040:
Summary: The US Conversations Podcast is meant to help you do that same thing. So the link to sign up is also down below and you have the transcript for this episode down below. And remember to give this podcast a five star rating and...

SEGMENT 1041:
Summary: I don't have Acrophobia, but that doesn't mean I can just go skydiving and bungee jumping without any issues. I would definitely be freaked out from those things because those things actually involve falling. Don't expect me to... post pictures of me skydive and bungy jumping on my Instagram soon. I don't think I'll ever do those things.

SEGMENT 1042:
Summary: "I am not doing any of these extreme sports that, even though they're probably pretty safe, if you go with professional, they're still that. very very very small percentage of risk of something going wrong and so I won't be doing that anytime soon"

SEGMENT 1043:
Summary: Use the US Conversations Podcast to practice listening with English spoken fast. You can become a listening time family member by clicking on the link in the description. We learn a lot about the US itself.

SEGMENT 1044:
Summary: CNN.com's iReport.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1045:
Summary: Claustrophobia is a fear of confined spaces, confined meaning that you are trapped inside of these spaces. Some people might be extremely claustrophobic, and a lot of people might just be a little bit claustrophic.

SEGMENT 1046:
Summary: This is the 184th episode of the Listening Time Podcast. In this episode, we're going to talk about reality TV. Remember that you have the transcript for all of these episodes for free.

SEGMENT 1047:
Summary: In the show Survivor, people are taken to an island or to some far away country and they have to survive on this island. But it's not a game about surviving, really. It's part of the game, but really. it's a competition.  immunity refers to the fact that if that tribe wins the challenge, then they don't have to go to what is called tribal council. At tribal council, the losing tribe has to vote out one of the people.

SEGMENT 1048:
Summary: The social and strategic aspect of the game. And this is where it gets really interesting. The game is played in a variety of ways, including the use of social media.

SEGMENT 1049:
Summary: People have to strategize and talk to other people and decide who is the best person to vote out. They might vote someone out because they're not very strong in the different challenges, so they don't want them on the tribe anymore. Or they might also voteSomeone out for strategic reasons.

SEGMENT 1050:
Summary: There's only one winner, one single person who wins immunity and then everyone goes to tribal council and they have to vote someone out. So this continues until the end of the game when there are just two or three people left. The jury gets to vote on who they want to win the game.

SEGMENT 1051:
Summary: And this is really interesting because 

SEGMENT 1052:
Summary: "This is reality TV. It's not like it's a show with actors and they're saying their lines," he says. "So I think that most reality TV today is probably... 

SEGMENT 1053:
Summary: The jury just doesn't like that. maybe someone was really good in the competitions and was really strategic in the game. So they don't vote for that person. So it's pretty interesting because these people that are still in the. game and trying to win, they have to convince the jury to vote for them.

SEGMENT 1054:
Summary: "You try to convince people that you're innocent or the other person is guilty or whatever," he says. "You go to court and you're trying to convince them that you've done nothing wrong"

SEGMENT 1055:
Summary: In the end, the jury votes on a winner and of course the person with the most votes wins. It's kind of like that.

SEGMENT 1056:
Summary: "Like I said, that was good practice for your listening. So hopefully you were able to follow that," he said. "I hope that was a good example for you to follow"

SEGMENT 1057:
Summary: "I watched this show with my family when I was a kid. And I really liked it. There were some parts that weren't as interesting for me, but there was one aspect, one part of the show, in particular, that I loved," he says. Clude the good auditions in this show. They also included the cast of The X-Files. The show is set to be screened in New York City next month.

SEGMENT 1058:
Summary: "I loved to... see these different auditions. really bad ones and it was always hilarious to watch these really bad singers try to impress the judges with their horrible singing" " Survivor and American Idol were two of the most popular reality shows ever in the US" American Idol helped propel some people into great careers afterwards. d some of the... winners of American Idol actually became well known artists afterwards. So some people that won this competition went on to have a great career as a famous singer.

SEGMENT 1059:
Summary: And someone is... 

SEGMENT 1060:
Summary: "P propelled means that they're pushed, they're given this momentum or push somewhere. is propelled," he says. "They're given a push to go somewhere"

SEGMENT 1061:
Summary: American Idol was a huge show in the past and I watched it as a kid. Another reality TV show that I watched was Fear Factor. So, Fear Factor was a show.

SEGMENT 1062:
Summary: When I was growing up, when I was a kid, there were some reality TV shows that I wrote. Things that a normal person would never want to do or would be really scared to do.

SEGMENT 1063:
Summary: "They had to do things that were really intimidating, scary. So. They had to ... do these different stunts," he says. "They had a lot to learn, and they learned a lot."

SEGMENT 1064:
Summary: "I love watching them do these horrible disgusting things like eating. cockroaches or they would lie down in some container and then someone would pour spiders all over them or something" "I don't know why this is so entertaining. Just talking about it makes me feel a little embarrassed" "I don't have an issue with heights so if I had to go up to some very high plays and jump to another place that's very high that wouldn't be as bad for me as these horrible gross challenges with these different bugs and things like that" "I first learned about Joe Rogan from Fear Factor. He was the host of that show" This is up there with survivor and American Idol in terms of like the most famous, the most watched reality TV shows of all time. And that is who wants to be a millionaire.

SEGMENT 1065:
Summary: "This show was really about your knowledge. So if you were able to compete on this show, you had to use your brains, your knowledge to answer these questions" "You would start with the easier questions and then the questions would get harder and harder as the game went on"

SEGMENT 1066:
Summary: I used to really like these shows in... on the show would always get three lifelines as they were called. These lifelines were like some type of help that would help them if they didn't know the answer to a question. And one interesting part of this show was that each question was worth a certain amount of money. At any point in this show, in this game, so to say, the person could say, you know what? I don't know the answer to this question. If you answer that right, then now you have $50. it was like that. ave $10.

SEGMENT 1067:
Summary: There were certain thresholds that once we passed them, like maybe $500 question, then... Even if you get One of the answers wrong. You're still gonna leave with $500. So there were I forget how many there were a couple maybe two or three of these different thresholds. Once you get there then maybe you feel like You can Just try to guess even if you don't know a certain question because you know that you'll

SEGMENT 1068:
Summary: whatever. 

SEGMENT 1069:
Summary: When something is on the line, this means that it's at risk. You can win it or you can lose it. Once you reach to higher level, maybe you didn't want to take the risk of losing half the money that you already have.

SEGMENT 1070:
Summary: I really liked it when I was growing up. But the vast majority of people on that show don't make it to the million dollar question. I was never a huge fan of those shows. I used to really like watching those shows while I was eating.

SEGMENT 1071:
Summary: I used to turn on those shows when I was eating breakfast because it was so satisfying to food. For some reason it made my breakfast taste better. So even though... 

SEGMENT 1072:
Summary: past. 

SEGMENT 1073:
Summary: I want to encourage you to use my advanced episodes if you haven't done so already so that you can practice listening to real English spoken fast. So I'm going to have fun talking about these different shows and I hope that you find this episode interesting as well.

SEGMENT 1074:
Summary: This episode was a little harder because I was describing shows in detail. I would encourage you to re-listen to this episode, repeat it again, use the transcript if you need it, and try to understand everything. Remember that you can start using my advanced podcast episodes to practice with real English spoken. It's great practice for your listening because it gives you the opportunity to listen to two people talking at normal speed. It's also good practice for you to learn how to read people's faces.

SEGMENT 1075:
Summary: Use my US Conversations podcast to start practicing with that. That's the skill that you'll need to do at some point. The link is down below like I mentioned.

SEGMENT 1076:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 1077:
Summary: "For me, Survivor is the greatest reality TV show of all time" "I think Survivor has really influenced other reality TV shows" "It's been going on for many years. And I think that it's still going on now"

SEGMENT 1078:
Summary: Connor: I hope that your English learning is going well. You should be doing some listening practice every day. interesting things that students ask me about sometimes is a particular event. You might have seen these movies before. bably don't have school dances or maybe you do but they're probably not that similar to our dances.

SEGMENT 1079:
Summary: The two most famous dances, the most important dances during the school year are homecoming which takes place at the beginning and end of the year. Homecoming is not just a dance, it's also a... sporting event, particularly for football.

SEGMENT 1080:
Summary: There's a football homecoming game, which is one of the biggest games of year. And not only is there this football game, but there's also the election of a homecoming coming king and queen.

SEGMENT 1081:
Summary: So this is a big deal. 

SEGMENT 1082:
Summary: The students elect who they want to be their king and their queen. It's kind of like a popularity contest. And if you are elected king or queen, that's a big honor. "I remember going to one home coming that was at a hotel. This kind of big room inside of a hotel," she says. "I was like, 'Oh my God, this is so beautiful' "

SEGMENT 1083:
Summary: But other 

SEGMENT 1084:
Summary: Homecoming is a big deal to dance that people look forward to. It's an important event. And of course there's prom, like I mentioned, and this is kind of similar.

SEGMENT 1085:
Summary: In today's episode we're going to talk about school events. At my school, prom was a dance that was for seniors or people in their last year of high school. There isn't a corresponding football game because football season is already over by then. "It was a really informal dance with informal attire. It was a silly dance, really," she says. "One other one I can think of at my school was Morp, which is prom spelled backwards"

SEGMENT 1086:
Summary:  spirit week is the week leading up to homecoming. On each day of that week, there's a different theme so maybe there's 70s day or pajama day. People dress up according to the theme of that day.

SEGMENT 1087:
Summary: "I was that type of person who would kind of just reject some of these things, some of the things we were supposed to do. didn't participate in it," he says.

SEGMENT 1088:
Summary: "I assume we had it because it's a big thing at many schools, but I just don't really remember it from my school time," she says. "Another event that we have is Pep rallies. So maybe that's why I don'treally remember it," she adds.

SEGMENT 1089:
Summary: Pep rallies are events that take place before certain sporting events. At my school, these rallies would take place in the middle of the school day. We were only allowed to go if we were wearing some type of shirt or sweatshirt.

SEGMENT 1090:
Summary: "People are always curious about this. They're curious to know about some of these things that they see in movies. on it. And so I want to talk about some different events that happen during high school, in the US, at public schools"

SEGMENT 1091:
Summary:  cheering when you cheer. This means that you yell in support of someone, right? If you cheer for a football team, you're yelling in support for them, right?"

SEGMENT 1092:
Summary: There are different activities at these pepper hotlies. Someone is hosting them, usually people from the football team or whatever, cheerleaders are there. They would always do a roll call. A roll call is what people do when they are trying to see who is present somewhere.

SEGMENT 1093:
Summary: Let's say here. 

SEGMENT 1094:
Summary: At pepper rallies, the seniors would always try to boo the freshmen when it was their turn. The seniors would go crazy and try to make it sound like they were the most important people.

SEGMENT 1095:
Summary: So that's a memory that I have. 

SEGMENT 1096:
Summary: The pep rallies were really exciting. They got people really fired up for different sporting events that would happen afterwards. And another event that's really important is Gradnight. This is only for seniors and it happens at the end of the school year.

SEGMENT 1097:
Summary: they're about to graduate. 

SEGMENT 1098:
Summary: That's why it's called Grant Knight. 

SEGMENT 1099:
Summary: Seniors get to go somewhere usually to some amusement park to have fun all night at that park. When I went to this Grant Knight celebration, it was at Six Flags Magic Mountain, which is a big amusement park.

SEGMENT 1100:
Summary: And... 

SEGMENT 1101:
Summary: Senior skip day is a day when seniors, people in their last year of high school, don't go to school that day. We got to spend all night at this amusement park with some other schools, other seniors from other schools. It was cool. A lot of people still go, especially the people that really care about getting good grades and really good students. They sometimes say that there will be a punishment if you participate in this, but people still do it.

SEGMENT 1102:
Summary: CNN.com's iReport will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 1103:
Summary: The senior prank day is a tradition that's been going for decades, at different schools. Some of the seniors at some point during the school year think of what they're going to do as their prank. And then...  mething like that. And then... And then ... And then it was all over. It was like a dream. But it was real.

SEGMENT 1104:
Summary: The prank was so big that it was even on the news. A fiasco is kind of like this big series of problems that happen. So it can get really serious.

SEGMENT 1105:
Summary: The only senior prank that I remember. really well when I was in high school was a pretty lame one to be honest. The seniors just ran through the hallways during class time with these blow horns and these noise makers, things like that to make... a bunch of noise and disrupt people's classes. I hope you enjoyed hearing about these different events and I hope it was good practice for your listening. I encourage you to join my membership if you want my training to help you understand it.

SEGMENT 1106:
Summary: You can add as speakers on the screen. I'll leave the link down below that's patreon.com slash listening time. You can also sign up for my US conversations podcast to practice with my conversations that I have with other English speakers from around the country.

SEGMENT 1107:
Summary: You can get my training to help you understand native speakers. You can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast. If you want to practice with my conversations that I have with other English speakers from all around the country. The daily transcript is a written version of each day's Daily Discussion. Use this transcript to help students with reading comprehension and vocabulary. Use the weekly Newsquiz to test your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN.

SEGMENT 1108:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 1109:
Summary: High school is the most significant school period for most of us, says CNN's John Sutter. Sutter: Let's talk about some different school events in public schools in the United States.

SEGMENT 1110:
Summary: You might have some ideas already about American culture based on high school movies or scenes that take place at high schools in the US. And this is what you often see in movie. and on TV and things like that.

SEGMENT 1111:
Summary: Connor: I hope that your English learning is going well and that you're staying consistent with it. And I hope you've enjoyed the new phrasal verb episodes that I've been... and leasing, I really hope that you like that format as well.

SEGMENT 1112:
Summary: area. 

SEGMENT 1113:
Summary: I think that we all have at least one talent. I've heard some people say I'm just not talented. I'm not talented at anything. And I don't think that's true. I think that that just means that that person hasn't really considered all of their strengths. CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 1114:
Summary: I encourage all of you to consider your talents and think about what things you're naturally good at. Anything that you have a natural ability to do well without needing to maybe work as hard, that's the talent. I can think of a few areas in which I hear this a lot. "I don't consider myself a talented language learner. I think that that really discounts it kind of disregards all of the time that this person spends language learning"

SEGMENT 1115:
Summary: I think that I'm probably just average at it. I've spent a decent amount of time learning languages like when I learned Spanish. I spent tons of hours with Spanish. So when they say that to me, they're kind of disregarding all the time I put into that thing.

SEGMENT 1116:
Summary: In today's episode, we're gonna talk about talent. Many people talk about what the difference is between someone who is talented at something and someone who had to work really hard to get good at something. And another thing to consider with language learning is that once you learn one foreign language, it's easier to learn more.

SEGMENT 1117:
Summary: "It's not just talent, they might have talent for sure, but if they spend a lot of time learning languages, it's very possible for them to first learn one and then learn another one," he says. "The process gets more familiar and easier with each language," he adds. "It would be easy to just say that she was talented at 10s. However, that would completely disregard the hundreds and hundreds or thousands of hours she dedicated to 10s"

SEGMENT 1118:
Summary: talent or hard work. 

SEGMENT 1119:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 1120:
Summary: People often like to say that someone is just naturally talented in is public speaking. People that are talented, they still have to train if they want to become professional speakers.

SEGMENT 1121:
Summary: So I think that 

SEGMENT 1122:
Summary: Talent is the thing that helps orient us. Hard work is really what helps us reach great success. It's kind of hard to distinguish whether it was talent or hard work.

SEGMENT 1123:
Summary: Talent and hard work. and what the difference is and how these two things work. The first thing is writing. Writing has always come naturally to me. I've worked as a writing tutor. even for a little while and I helped foreigners in the US with their essay writing and that was a very natural job for me. Almost everyone I knew had trouble with this. I was baffled by how hard it was for people to write essays. It seemed like such an easy task for me.

SEGMENT 1124:
Summary: "When that's the case, that usually means that you're talented in that area," he says. "And that's what I'm trying to do here"

SEGMENT 1125:
Summary: Because... 

SEGMENT 1126:
Summary: I like creative writing. I like writing poetry and songs and things like that. I can make... things sound pretty good in written form. I don't think I'll ever write a very good successful novel.

SEGMENT 1127:
Summary: "I can usually look at the people around me that I'm interacting with, and I feel like I can read them more easily than other people can" "I don't think my talent compares to famous authors' talents, of course, definitely not" "I can't believe that the other person can't see this and they can't read the person they're talking to and see that that person does not want to talk to them or that person is not interested" "When we say that something comes naturally to someone, we're saying that it's natural for them to do it. They have a natural ability to do that" "I can pick up on that really easily when I see other people talking in one person. and is not reading the other person well, that's really obvious to me" "I think that I'm talented at racket sports. I haven't played all of these sports like at a high level or anything" "I like these sports when you're drawn to something. That means that you're attracted to it. pretty clear that this is something that I'm naturally drawn to," he said.

SEGMENT 1128:
Summary: "I'm naturally drawn to these types of sports and it just feels pretty easy for me to play them," he says. "So that's a good indication that I have some talent when it comes to these type of sports"

SEGMENT 1129:
Summary: "I can compare myself to my sister, for example, who is an art teacher. And she's an artist, you could say" "I'm still horrible today when it comes to art and it's not fun for me either"

SEGMENT 1130:
Summary: When I'm in the kitchen, I am completely lost. I don't belong in there at all. So that's one. Another thing that I'm definitely not talented at is cooking.

SEGMENT 1131:
Summary: "I lack common sense in the kitchen. I can't do basic things. When I help cook, that's very rare, but sometimes I will help with the cooking process," he says. "I usually actually hurt the process. instead of helping it" "It takes me a really long time to do different things, especially cutting and preparing things like vegetables. That takes me forever," he says. "I've always been really bad at this. This has never come actually to me even when I played sports" I hated being in the midfield, like the people in the middle that have to run a lot, this was really hard for me. So as you can see, cardio activities are something that I'm not talented at. However, like I said,  to play in the midfield was really hard.

SEGMENT 1132:
Summary: I'm trying to work hard at running so that I can get better. So even if there's something that definitely not talented at, you can still work really hard and actually get better at that thing.

SEGMENT 1133:
Summary: I hope you enjoyed this episode. I hope it got you thinking about the things that you're talented at. And of course, you can use my advanced podcast episodes if you feel ready to practice.

SEGMENT 1134:
Summary: you can also use my U.S. 

SEGMENT 1135:
Summary: Listen to the Conversations Podcast if you feel ready to practice listening to two people talking. It's really fun, it's really interesting.

SEGMENT 1136:
Summary: If you go down below and click on the link to sign up, you can become a listening time family member. If you want those advanced episodes, you'll get two every month. Also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast if you want to practice with two people talking.

SEGMENT 1137:
Summary: I provide the transcript for that. So if you're interested in that link... is also down below. Of course I provide the Transcript for That.

SEGMENT 1138:
Summary:  talent is a natural ability that allows someone to excel at something without needing to work as hard. So if someone is naturally better at something than the average person, and they don't need to practice quite as much in order to reach a higher level, then I think we can safely say that that person is talented in that area.

SEGMENT 1139:
Summary: This is the 129th episode of the Listening Time Podcast. It will be the week of Thanksgiving here in the US. I hope that your English learning is going great.

SEGMENT 1140:
Summary: CNN's John Sutter talks about the origins of the holiday. He also talks about some of the things that he's thankful for from this year, from 2023.

SEGMENT 1141:
Summary: In 1621 there was an autumn harvest feast. When we say higher to something, we're saying before something. So, higher to the Mayflower bringing the pilgrims over. These Wampanoag people were already there.

SEGMENT 1142:
Summary:  Thanksgiving is generally thought of to be a day where you get together with your family, you ea. with multiple people, right? So they had an autumn harvest feast with the pilgrims and the Wampanoac people.  Thanksgiving is not the most important holiday in the US in my opinion. When you say that you show gratitude for saying that you express the fact that you're thankful. per things.

SEGMENT 1143:
Summary: "I would definitely disagree with this. They'll have this assumption and I would definitely disagrees with this," he said. "I think it's a mistake to assume that this is the case"

SEGMENT 1144:
Summary: Christmas is by far the most important holiday. Thanksgiving might be number two for a lot of people but it's not number one for most people. The meal that we have on this holiday is si.  Thanksgiving is famous for Turkey. This is the main character, let's say. milar to the meal that we have on Christmas. So the dishes are very similar and a lot of them are the same.

SEGMENT 1145:
Summary: For Christmas, some people eat turkey. 

SEGMENT 1146:
Summary: Thanksgiving is not something that you have all around the world. It's more of a regional thing in the US, I think in Canada. So we'll talk about that today.

SEGMENT 1147:
Summary: In the U.S. it is common to eat ham on Christmas. This is one of the best things about celebrating these holidays in the US Compared to maybe celebrating Christmas in other countries. There are a lot of dishes where if you just say the name of the dish, immediately people think of Christmas or they think of Thanksgiving. So that was one of my complaints when I celebrated Christmas in Mexico is I felt that there was some holiday food, but not nearly as much as in the US. The stuffing traditionally was stuffed inside the turkey to cook with the turkey. The turkey was then served with the stuffing, or stuffing, in a dish. The stuffing was then removed and the turkey was served.

SEGMENT 1148:
Summary: "I read that it can actually be dangerous. However, you don't need to do that," he says. "You don't have to do anything that is dangerous."

SEGMENT 1149:
Summary: "You don't do it correctly, but that's what you do. You don't have to do it right, but you have to try," he says.

SEGMENT 1150:
Summary: Stuffing was stuffed in the meat of the turkey. Another one is cranberry sauce. There's this special sauce that it's really delicious.

SEGMENT 1151:
Summary: Cranberry sauce enhances other dishes, says chef. "I like eating turkey with this cranberry sauce. So that's a really tasty combo. in my opinion"

SEGMENT 1152:
Summary: With the turkey there is white meat and dark meat. I prefer dark meat because it has more flavor but some people like white meat. So the turkey has both.

SEGMENT 1153:
Summary: In my opinion if you eat white meat then you sh- should pair it with this cranberry sauce. When I say that you pair something with something else, this means that you put the two things together. Right.

SEGMENT 1154:
Summary: Cranberry sauce is another one that people will immediately associate with Thanksgiving, usually. Sweet potato casserole is one of my favorite dishes because it's not a dessert. Some people add marshmallows to this sweet potato casserole. And then you can also put things like brown sugar or marshmallow or things like that that can make it even sweeter.

SEGMENT 1155:
Summary: Usually this is a associate 

SEGMENT 1156:
Summary: Mashed potatoes and gravy can be eaten anytime throughout the year. There are other dishes that we can have at other times during the year, but they're also related to these two holidays.

SEGMENT 1157:
Summary: However, it's hard for me to imagine. 

SEGMENT 1158:
Summary: Mashed potatoes and gravy are not just particular to Thanksgiving. A roll in this context refers to a piece of bread. It's usually really fluffy on the inside.

SEGMENT 1159:
Summary: High. butter is one of the most popular desserts that we eat during Thanksgiving. There are many other dishes that are associated with Thanksgiving or with Christmas. This year is the year that we have established ourselves in the US, me being a citizen and she being a resident. So we had been waiting for that process to end for so long. We constantly thought. about the immigration process.

SEGMENT 1160:
Summary: You also have the definitions of keywords and phrases that we use during the conversation. for each episode. For the full transcript of this week's show, click here.

SEGMENT 1161:
Summary: If you want my training for your pronunciation and your listening, then make sure to join my membership. That's patreon.com slash us conversations. So if you're interested in that, click on the link in the episode description below.

SEGMENT 1162:
Summary: So you can get eyes. 

SEGMENT 1163:
Summary: This year is our first year living in the US legally. I'm extremely thankful that we got through that process and that we're now living here. I've been able to spend a lot of time with my parents and with my sister and her family. "I was really looking forward to being able to do this at some point and now this year we can do it," he says. "I'm very happy to be with my parents as I've mentioned before," he adds.

SEGMENT 1164:
Summary: "It's been great to be able to do fun things with my wife and my son up here in the US" "I'm thankful. for my church. I have a church up here, I really like and the members awesome and that's a big part of my life"

SEGMENT 1165:
Summary: out that. So I can't go without that. 

SEGMENT 1166:
Summary: I'm really thankful for my church as well. I've been able to reach a lot of people with this content and I've received many messages from people thanking me for helping them. It's great to help one person, but it's even cooler in my opinion to help more than one person. "I'm really...  and that's been a big blessing. And one other thing that I'm really ...  and one other things that I've really...

SEGMENT 1167:
Summary:  specialized training to help you pronounce English better and also listen and understand more effectively. specialized training will help you pronunciation English better, and alsoListen and understand better.

SEGMENT 1168:
Summary: This week's show features a guest who has learned English. What do you think? Let us know in the comments below. And if you like this podcast, please share it with anyone else you know who's learned English and give it a five star rating.

SEGMENT 1169:
Summary: "I receive a lot of messages from you. I can't respond to all of them, unfortunately, because they come at me from different angles," he says. "I'm not the best person at leaving all my messages"

SEGMENT 1170:
Summary: The fact that I have listeners from all over the world is really cool. It motivates me to continue doing this and of course for those of that are members, my membership. I really appreciate your support. So I'm thankful for all of you. I hope you had a great Thanksgiving with your family or your friends. I hope that you can reflect on some of the things that you're thankful for as well.

SEGMENT 1171:
Summary: If you want to practice with real English between native speakers, then make sure to sign up for my US conversations podcast. You'll get a new conversation every month with the transcript and with the definitions of keywords. If you need more help, if you need my specialized training to understand native speakers better or to pronounce more correctly, then join my membership.

SEGMENT 1172:
Summary: If you like this podcast, I'd really appreciate it. If you could share it with different people, you know who are learning English. And please give it a five-star rating and writer review if you can.

SEGMENT 1173:
Summary: Thanksgiving originated in the year 1621. English settlers and aindand calls for name. we would call pilgrims that came over on the Mayflower ship.

SEGMENT 1174:
Summary: This week we're talking about the Wampanoag people. These are native Americans who were here prior to the Pilgrims. It was the second permanent colony in America.

SEGMENT 1175:
Summary: "We're all still sick nothing too serious but it's a little bit annoying of course so I apologize for the sound of my sick voice but hopefully you don't mind" "In today's episode we're gonna talk about the golden rule so the goldenRule is the term that we offer"

SEGMENT 1176:
Summary: If someone is throwing a big party late into the night, the neighbors might have trouble sleeping. Or if someone's dog is barking all day long, that can definitely annoy people. Or I can think of one that happens.

SEGMENT 1177:
Summary: "I would never think of doing to another neighbor of mine if I knew that they were paying for parking space," she says. "Even though he knew that was our space and it wasn't his, he thought, well, they're not using it, so I'm going to take it" I wouldn't assume that I can park there. So even things like parking spaces are problematic sometimes with neighbors. And there are plenty of other issues that could come up. And this brings us back to the Golden Rule.

SEGMENT 1178:
Summary: "I don't think that most people want their neighbors to play their music really loud and park in their parking spaces and throw crazy parties into the middle of the night when we try to sleep," he says. "Most people don't like that. They don't likes when other people do that. For sure. would be treat our neighbors the same way"

SEGMENT 1179:
Summary: So it's inconsistent, right? 

SEGMENT 1180:
Summary: "If you don't want your neighbors to do that, then you shouldn't do that either," he says. "If you want to get along with your neighbors, you need to be able to talk to them."

SEGMENT 1181:
Summary: People can easily forget about the people around them, the neighbors, when they're in their own home. It's not until their neighbors start to do those things that these same people realize that they don't like that behavior.

SEGMENT 1182:
Summary: If you do it and you think it's okay, why do you get mad when neighbors do the same thing? So I think that if we practice the golden rule with our neighbors, then we will all have a peaceful living situation for the most part.

SEGMENT 1183:
Summary: And that's probably... 

SEGMENT 1184:
Summary: This golden rule comes from Matthew 712 in Bible. It's something that most people know about and they know that they should follow this rule. However, we don't like when strangers do things that make us mad. If you're not receiving the best service, it's perfectly fine to say that and to sometimes even talk to the manager about it. However, I think it's important not to go overboard and get really mad at employees that are maybe not doing the best job. Imagine if you were working at your office and strangers come in and start yelling at you and telling you that you're doing a terrible job. You probably wouldn't like that.

SEGMENT 1185:
Summary: "It's a legitimate feeling to be frustrating by that when you're not being treated well," she says. "I think we should not just say, well, I'm never going to see this worker again"

SEGMENT 1186:
Summary: "Another group of strangers who we share. Right? So that's kind of what I'm saying here," he says. "We're all in this together, aren't we?"

SEGMENT 1187:
Summary: "I think that we shouldn't think of ourselves as being the kings and queens of the road and we can do what we want," he says. "To cut someone off means... that you go right in front of them, so they have to break really hard, right?"

SEGMENT 1188:
Summary: We sometimes think, ah, no one is affected by it, but yes, people are affected when driver runs a red light. So we shouldn't cut people off and be aggressive and run red lights. And one other one I can think of is, this happened a lot when I was living in Mexico. Someone might be trying to turn right on a green light, but they're waiting for the pedestrians to cross the street. So

SEGMENT 1189:
Summary: Cars behind this car start honking their horns and yelling, getting mad, that this person is simply waiting for the person to finish crossing the street. So I think that's crazy, that's ridiculous.

SEGMENT 1190:
Summary: We shouldn't just think that our actions in our car only affect us, right? We should drive how we would want other people around us to drive. Another instance in which I think it's good to practice the Gold Rule is when you encounter new people. A new person. on at work and you've already been there for a long time, you have your friends at the office and you're comfortable. Or an even better example would be in school when there's a new student who comes in middle of the year and they don't know anyone, but you do have friends.

SEGMENT 1191:
Summary: I think that for us, if we were the new kid in school and we don't know anyone, we're really nervous and everyone else knows each other already, we would want someone. one that invite them to come sit with you at lunch or whatever. I think that it's a really good thing to go up and talk to them, new person, befriend them.

SEGMENT 1192:
Summary: "Be friendly to us and invite us to hang out with them, their friends. to come up and help us out," says one of the girls.

SEGMENT 1193:
Summary: I think that that's a great way to practice this golden rule. I think we would all want that. So I think that if we want that, it's important that we try to do that for other people.

SEGMENT 1194:
Summary: In the US in the past, it was very, very normal for people to go over and visit a new neighbor when they see that someone has just moved into a house on their street. People would go over... and bring them homemade cookies or cake or something like that and welcome them to the neighborhood. I don't think this is as common now as it was in the Past, but I think that's a cool custom, cool ighbors to make us feel welcome. ighbors are the people who help us make sure we feel safe and welcome in our new home.

SEGMENT 1195:
Summary: We always want to feel welcome and treated well when we travel abroad. So I think it's important to practice the golden rule with foreigners and tourists in your country. It's a good idea to welcome tourists and foreigners to your city, your country. ortant to do this when tourists or foreigners come to your country, your city.

SEGMENT 1196:
Summary: "If they're not doing something wrong or breaking the law or just being bad. If they're  being bad, they're probably doing something bad," he says.

SEGMENT 1197:
Summary: I don't want foreigners to come to my country or my city and leave with a bad impression and say, the people were awful there. And I think that we should try to make them feel welcome. We should treat them well. I hope that if people come to where I live, that they leave thinking that it's a great place. I love doing this and when I have the opportunity to do so. I always choose to talk to the foreigner who's had some vent or whatever. I want to try to treat people who come here to my country the way that I want to be treated when I go visit some other country. So that's another group of people who it's good to practice the golden rule. I'm sure you can think of other situations in which it's important to follow the goldenRule.

SEGMENT 1198:
Summary: Learn about the U.S. English speakers from around the country so you can learn about the country. Practice listening, learning a lot of new words and phrases.

SEGMENT 1199:
Summary: The daily transcript is a written version of each day's Daily Discussion. Use this transcript to help students with reading comprehension and vocabulary. Use the weekly Newsquiz to test your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN iReport.

SEGMENT 1200:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 1201:
Summary: them to treat you, right? 

SEGMENT 1202:
Summary: You can sign up for my advanced podcast episodes to start practicing with real English spoken fast. That's an essential step that you'll eventually need to take in your English learning journey. So, first, I want to talk about neighbors. I've had a lot of inconsiderate neighbors throughout the years.

SEGMENT 1203:
Summary: "I've had plenty of inconsiderate neighbors throughout the years," she says. "For many people, if they're in their house or they're a part, they feel like they can do whatever they want"

SEGMENT 1204:
Summary: Listen to episode 153 of The Listening Time Podcast. Consider how your actions might be affecting your neighbors. If someone is playing their music really loud and they share a wall with someone else, that's probably gonna annoy them.

SEGMENT 1205:
Summary: Today we're gonna talk about some different things that I learned from teaching. So I use the past tense here I learned because I'm not really teaching anymore. I'm pretty much done with this big world.

SEGMENT 1206:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 1207:
Summary: "I think I did an episode about stereotypes, right? Well, I did some type of content about this and when I talked about stereotypes... One stereotype that I mentioned about the US is that people in the US tend to not really know that much about the rest of the world, especially things related to geography," he says.

SEGMENT 1208:
Summary: "I know a pretty good amount of geography thanks to... to my work as a teacher and thanks to the fact that I think geography is really interesting" "I'm fascinated by this topic in the past, even now still, I sometimes just open up a map online and just kind of explore the world through this map"

SEGMENT 1209:
Summary: When I would have a new student, it was their first class with me, just based on the country that they were from, I already knew what mistakes they would make. Sometimes they would start the sentence slowly and I could already predict an error that they would made later on in the sentence.

SEGMENT 1210:
Summary: There are certain things about English that are especially difficult because those things don't exist in your language. Maybe in the future I might teach again. That's definitely possible, but for now I'm done.

SEGMENT 1211:
Summary: "I teach people from around the world who are learning English. So I thought it would be good to reflect on my experience as a teacher"

SEGMENT 1212:
Summary: I like to see the different difficulties that people have with English based on their language. They have these same errors that everyone else from their country also have. These errors tend to be the hardest ones to correct.

SEGMENT 1213:
Summary: They stay the longest, right? 

SEGMENT 1214:
Summary: It's not like everyone's accent is equally as understandable or unintelligible. It is really different actually based on what language the person speaks. Some people have a natural advantage because their accent is easier for us to understand.

SEGMENT 1215:
Summary: Everyone has their specific difficulty with English based on their own language. So as a teacher this is something. thing we need to be aware of. The overall challenge is getting enough experience and practice. "This is the overall challenge and this is not a problem. This is how language learning works" "It's down to getting enough exposure to the language and... practicing enough to eventually speak and understand well"

SEGMENT 1216:
Summary: As a language teacher, I have heard this same complaint hundreds of times. You need to get tons and tons of exposure and practice with the language.

SEGMENT 1217:
Summary: "I taught for a little more than seven years, one-on-one with people learning English from around the world" "People really just don't understand how long it takes, how many hours it takes to get good at a language"

SEGMENT 1218:
Summary: "You don't need to start over, learn all the grammar. No, that's not the solution, okay? So, what I want you to take away from this lesson is that you don't have a problem with English," he says.

SEGMENT 1219:
Summary: Find more motivation, find more interesting content to consume and have patience. keep on reading and listening and speaking and find more motivation. 

SEGMENT 1220:
Summary: Everyone has this quote unquote problem. It's not a problem. That's the solution. Okay? So that's another lesson I learned that almost everyone feels this same difficulty and they tend to think that it's their specific problem.

SEGMENT 1221:
Summary: This is how language learning works. So just accept that it takes many hours, thousands of hours, and tons of input and output listening and reading and speaking and writing.

SEGMENT 1222:
Summary: "I've noticed this throughout the years that all of my most accomplished and advanced students who speak really well understand really well," he says. "These are almost always the people that don't know any grammar" "I. know a lot of grammar, but this doesn't really help them speak and understand.  It's like they don't know how to say 'please' or 'thank you' or even 'I'm sorry' "

SEGMENT 1223:
Summary: "I have seen over and over again. and added advanced level. So that's something I have seen," he said. "It's a great thing to see"

SEGMENT 1224:
Summary: "People that don't stress about knowing everything, these people tend to focus on what's important, which is listening, reading, speaking," he says.

SEGMENT 1225:
Summary: Okay. 

SEGMENT 1226:
Summary: "I'm sure this will be an interesting topic and that you'll like it. And before we start, remember that if you want my training to help you understand people when they speak fast, make sure to join my membership" In my experience, it's more rewarding to learn grammar explicitly. once you already Intuitively know it so you already know the correct sentence. Then you kind of Look at it and you're able to deconstruct it and see the grammar and how it works.

SEGMENT 1227:
Summary: correctly. Right? 

SEGMENT 1228:
Summary: People that don't focus on grammar tend to reach higher levels than people that are really stressed about this. So that's just my opinion, but from my experience with students, I can see that people that aren't stressed about grammar are more successful.

SEGMENT 1229:
Summary: So that's another lesson. And the fifth lesson that I wanted to mention. Okay? So that's one lesson. The fifth lesson is that it's OK to say no.

SEGMENT 1230:
Summary: "Most people are not really good at managing conversations," he says. "Maybe the vast majority of people, I don't know, but most people aren't great conversationalists"

SEGMENT 1231:
Summary: The phrase at ease means that you're not stressed, you're relaxed. It's just something I've noticed over the years that the vast majority of people are not experts at managing conversations.

SEGMENT 1232:
Summary: You can really stand out if you practice this skill. The phrasal verb stand out means that people notice you right here exceptional. If you can practice your conversational skills and practice managing these situations and making the other person feel like the conversation is going really smoothly, it's easy.

SEGMENT 1233:
Summary: "When I talk to people that have these skills, I feel at ease. It feels fun to talk," he says. "I feel more motivated to exchange with this person"

SEGMENT 1234:
Summary: The link is down below. That's patreon.com slash listening time. And if you feel ready to start with my other podcast in which I talk to different English teachers from around the US.

SEGMENT 1235:
Summary: If you can practice your conversational skills, you're going to succeed more in your job, your relationships, your life in general. People really appreciate it when you are good at conversations and to make it for them to talk to you.

SEGMENT 1236:
Summary: Languages can't be taught, they can only be learned. So work on your conversational skills and your people skills and you'll see the benefits for sure.

SEGMENT 1237:
Summary: "I heard someone say this recently. And I loved this expression. I think it's really true," she says. "I think it is really true"

SEGMENT 1238:
Summary: The learner is the one who is responsible for their improvement, for their ability to learn a language. It's not the teacher. What does the teacher do? The teacher can provide motivation.

SEGMENT 1239:
Summary: Teachers can provide feedback, for example. can give you corrections, they can tell you what you're doing right, long, etc. And probably most importantly, they are a good source of conversation in a very comfortable environment where you can practice your speaking.

SEGMENT 1240:
Summary: "Teacher does not give you the knowledge to speak or to understand a language," he says. "It's a great environment in which to practice your speaking and listening"

SEGMENT 1241:
Summary: Okay, I've been doing this long enough. 

SEGMENT 1242:
Summary: A teacher does not give you the knowledge of the language. You have to learn it. You are the only person that can determine whether or not you become good at English or any other language.

SEGMENT 1243:
Summary: Make sure to sign up for my membership to get my listening practice seminars. to understand native speakers better when they speak fast.  Make sure to get your ears tuned to the sound of your own voice.

SEGMENT 1244:
Summary: The link is down below. And if you want my US Conversations podcast, I'll leave that link down below as well. It's on iTunes and it's free.

SEGMENT 1245:
Summary: "That's great practice for those of you who are ready to train," says coach. "That's a great way to get ready for the season"

SEGMENT 1246:
Summary: You can sign up for my US Conversations podcast. You're listening with two people talking and not just one different parts of the country here.

SEGMENT 1247:
Summary: You know what time it is. It's listening time. All right let's get started. Are your ears ready? You know whattime it is, it's listen time.

SEGMENT 1248:
Summary: The world is really big and there's so much to learn about it. Let's talk about some different things that I learned from teaching, my time as a teacher. I wrote down six things here, but obviously there are many more.

SEGMENT 1249:
Summary: We are to 

SEGMENT 1250:
Summary: Listen to episode 140 of the Listening Time Podcast. Connor: The world is a really big place and there's so much that we can learn about the world. Sode: We're going to talk about why it seems so hard to go from an intermediate to an advanced level in English or in any other language. sode: I think you'll all appreciate this one.

SEGMENT 1251:
Summary: The 100 most common words in English, they come up, they appear much, much more. frequently than the next 100 words or the next 1000 words or whatever. So we'll talk about why the process a lot of you have felt this before and you might wonder why. Well, the main reason why in my opinion is because of the frequency of the words.

SEGMENT 1252:
Summary: So why is that important? 

SEGMENT 1253:
Summary: The words that are the most common in a language like English are very, very common. You can't construct many sentences without these words. So for example the word z in English that's an extremely common word. In English, when we say the phrase no matter what, we're saying with no exceptions. Maybe the word and or the word because these are function words that are so incredible to the language.

SEGMENT 1254:
Summary: "You're going to learn words like, and the... and because no matter what, you can't get very far without those words. So this is great because when we first start learning a language, these words show up time and time again," he says.

SEGMENT 1255:
Summary: You can go from zero to a high beginner or low intermediate level relatively quickly. You're going to establish the basics of English pretty quickly as long as you practice.

SEGMENT 1256:
Summary: If you have those 100 common words or 200 most common words in English, you're going to have some foundation to build upon. time and energy to this. And you're Going to establish these basics with the foundation of these common words, right?

SEGMENT 1257:
Summary: Once you reach that high beginner level, probably, what's going to happen is that you already have those common words. They're already in your brain. And now you don't have many other really common words that are new for you. So the words that're new now are words that seem so difficult to go from an intermediate English learner speaker to an advanced English speaker.

SEGMENT 1258:
Summary: These tips aren't going to solve all of your problems instantly. We're going to talk about that today and I'll offer some suggestions about how to help you out.

SEGMENT 1259:
Summary: The word frame is less common, much less common. You're not going to get a lot of repetition and exposure to those words. Do you even hear that word once a week or even once a month?

SEGMENT 1260:
Summary: Not likely unless you're someone who works with pictures and frames. Probably not unless you work with pictures or frames and frames, that is.

SEGMENT 1261:
Summary: You probably don't even hear that word more than once a month. So it's going to be a lot harder for you to remember the word frame than it will be.

SEGMENT 1262:
Summary: You see a word and then you try to memorize that word, okay, frame. And then you don't see that word again for two months. By that time, you've already forgotten what it means. Then it shows up again and you think, hmm, that word looks familiar.

SEGMENT 1263:
Summary: What's happens to me? 

SEGMENT 1264:
Summary: "Once you reach an inner real level, you're not going to see all of these new words very frequently," he says. "You're not learning as much as you did when you first started"

SEGMENT 1265:
Summary: You're still solidifying the basics to solidify something means that you establish it with more strength. So progress is going to seem very slow. And you're going to be improving as long as you keep on.

SEGMENT 1266:
Summary: It will take you a lot longer to learn these other words. And it won't seem like you're improving. And so that's not very fun, obviously, but that's kind of the reality of languages.

SEGMENT 1267:
Summary: Make sure to become a listening time family member. That's patreon.com slash listening time. of course, but I think that they can help. And if you want my new podcast, my US Conversations podcast in which 

SEGMENT 1268:
Summary: The 100 most frequent words in English make up 50% of all of what you will read in English. So, you can see how infrequent those other words are going to be. Why that makes it so hard once you've reached an intermediate level. If you're at a lower intermediate level and you feel like progress is slow, what can you do? Well, I thought of four things that you can do. The first one is the one that's not the most interesting or fun and that is simply to dedicate more time to your language learning.

SEGMENT 1269:
Summary: I don't know. 

SEGMENT 1270:
Summary: A student spends four hours a day listening to English. He spends three hours actively listening and another hour passively listening. So the simple fact that he is listening so much gives him enough repetition to hear the less frequent words more often. Most of us probably aren't going to find three or four hours just to dedicate to listening. So that might not be the easiest thing for most of us, but I wanted to mention it because my student does this and it works great for him.

SEGMENT 1271:
Summary: There are many tools available online and a lot of them are free that are designed to help you study words or whatever, phrases, sentences or things from other subjects. They help you practice memorizing these things and then they... I talk to people from all over the US about different topics.

SEGMENT 1272:
Summary: Inky. will show you a certain word when you're probably about to forget it. These spaced repetition apps and websites are designed to help you get really good repetition of new words.

SEGMENT 1273:
Summary: A-N-K-I is a fantastic tool that you can use to help you out with that. Of course, it's going to require some effort. You're going to have to take some time to do that and to study these words. So that's another thing you can do. If you hear a word five times, it's much more powerful than if you only hear it one time. So that's pretty obvious, right?

SEGMENT 1274:
Summary: I spend periods of time listening to content about the same subject. I might spend a full month listen to content specifically about let's say online business. And I listen to multiple podcasts and watching multiple different YouTube channels that are all about theSame subject. Because they're all about same subject, I hear them use very similar terminology and phrases.

SEGMENT 1275:
Summary: A lot of the same words and phrases show up if I keep listening to content about that topic. And so you can kind of cycle through different topics like this and consume a lot of content about these topics. And then you move on to another topic.

SEGMENT 1276:
Summary: We repeat the same words and phrases over and over again. So I'm going to talk about the main reason. speaking style. start reading on Spotify or Apple podcasts and writer of you. All right, let's get started.

SEGMENT 1277:
Summary: I hope this episode was interesting for you and I hope it encourages you to keep on practicing even if the progress sees slow and one way you can practice is by using my advanced pod cast episodes. So if you're interested in that, sign up for my US Conversations podcast. That's patreon.com slash US.com.

SEGMENT 1278:
Summary: There are multiple reasons, of course, but I want to focus on the really big one. The one that really makes a difference in the process when you're a beginner or an intermediate learner.

SEGMENT 1279:
Summary: Once you reach an intermediate level, this progress seems to slow down a lot. So I'm sure you've felt this before. Right now, I'm learning Italian, as I mentioned in the last episode, and I started from scratch. From zero and it seems like I'mlearning a ton of things Right now. But I know that once I reach an Intermediate level in Italian I will also feel this progress slow down. It's Listen to episode 123 of the Listening Time Podcast. It's the very end of summer here in the Northern Hemisphere. autumn is just around the corner in English. This is a fun thing for kids to do. People like tree houses. etty classic tradition here in the US. It's a great way to start the day.

SEGMENT 1280:
Summary: "We built a tree house where we just had these different platforms on different branches of the tree" "We used wood and nailed the wood into the tree to build steps that we could step on"  e could climb the tree to get to the different platforms. e could also climb a ladder to get up to the top of the tree.

SEGMENT 1281:
Summary: "I know that this might be a little difficult to visualize, but that's probably the best way that I can describe it. I know that I'm not very good at it, but I'm trying to do my best," he says.

SEGMENT 1282:
Summary: "It was really fun. And building this tree house," he said. "It was a lot of fun" He added: "It's a great way to spend time with family and friends."

SEGMENT 1283:
Summary: I think we have... 

SEGMENT 1284:
Summary: "It was a great place to play and to use our imagination to create gains and things like that in this tree house" "I always really liked climbing trees as a kid that would... always something that I enjoyed" "It was probably a little dangerous, but we did it in a little bit" "I actually collected books.  I actually collect books," he said. "I'm not a book collector. I'm a book lover."

SEGMENT 1285:
Summary: "I actually collected bugs during a brief time in my life. Now when I look back on this, it seems kind of gross to me"

SEGMENT 1286:
Summary: I collected caterpillars and I remember putting them in a container and I tried to create a good environment for them. In this container I put leaves and sticks.

SEGMENT 1287:
Summary: changing. 

SEGMENT 1288:
Summary: A lot of people like this season. They like the seasonal food. There are a lot of different types of food that people start to eat during autumn. For example, pumpkin patches, things like that inside and I fed them fruit. I remember feeding them canalope. I loved making paper airplanes as a kid, especially because I loved trying to find the different combinations of folds that would result in the best airplane. I think that I liked to experiment a little bit and see these bugs would get along with each other. would combine some different bugs together and watch what they did. My neighbor and I found this perfect design that we would recreate. time and time again and create these airplanes and try to make them fly as high and as long as possible. And so it was a very intricate design. I still remember how to make this paper airplane. even now as an adult. "It was really fun to do that and to experiment with different types of designs. ed up beating that one really good design that we found," he said.

SEGMENT 1289:
Summary: I like experimenting with different options and trying to create different designs. with things like that. That's something that I enjoy and I really enjoyed it as a kid. And another one was something that we called cardboarding. So we would slide down this big hill on pieces of cardboard.

SEGMENT 1290:
Summary: "I think that I'll do an episode on pumpkin patches. places where they sell pumpkins, but they also have a lot of activities for kids and me and my family," she says.

SEGMENT 1291:
Summary:  cardboard is that material that's used to ship items to package them and ship them. material that is used to package items to transport them or ship them to another place. When you say shipping, when we say that in item ships we're saying that it is sent from one place to another.

SEGMENT 1292:
Summary: So we... 

SEGMENT 1293:
Summary: "I joined in and we had a lot of fun doing this. It didn't always work really well because sometimes the grass grew in a way that didn't allow us to slide very well"

SEGMENT 1294:
Summary: "It was actually a little bit dangerous because we weren't able to stop very well. You don't really have a brake system with this type of cardboard obviously," he says. "There were a few times when I got hurt but nothing serious just minor things," he adds. "I played and make believe a lot when I was around the age of six or seven around that page. I remember playing with my old neighbor in my old house, my first house, and I remember inventing different games together," he said. I decided that I wanted to do an episode about some of my favorite activities that I did when I was a kid. So my childhood activities, specifically things that Idid outdoors. I was thinking about pumpkin patches and about different things like that.

SEGMENT 1295:
Summary: "I remember pretending and coming up with all of these different scenarios with my neighbor," she says. "We pretended that we were different characters doing different things and it was tons of fun"

SEGMENT 1296:
Summary: "I don't know where we got that idea from. I have no idea how we started that, but I just remember that we loved playing this boat game using our imagination," she says. "It helps kids use their imagination and not just rely on being given the stimulation from a screen or from something else" I think that there are a lot of good benefits for kids to play make-believe.  helps them begin to play on their own and not just need their parents to play with them, for example. I really like that and I'm interested to see when my son will start to play.

SEGMENT 1297:
Summary: "I'm looking forward to that stage in his life. I think that will be fun," he said of his son. "I think it will be a lot of fun"

SEGMENT 1298:
Summary: All right, why don't I stop there? 

SEGMENT 1299:
Summary: I hope this episode was interesting for you. Remember that you can sign up for my new podcast, US Conversations. It's an exclusive podcast, so you need to sign up and you'll get one new conversation every month.

SEGMENT 1300:
Summary: And if you 

SEGMENT 1301:
Summary: CNN.com's John Sutter looks back at some of his favorite things from his childhood. Sutter also talks about his new podcast, US Conversations, where he talks to English teachers.

SEGMENT 1302:
Summary: the US. 

SEGMENT 1303:
Summary: "We talk about many things and have natural conversations at normal speed. And you have the transcript available with the definitions of key words and phrases that we use"

SEGMENT 1304:
Summary: The link is in the episode description below this episode. That's patreon.com slash you. The episode is also available on iTunes.

SEGMENT 1305:
Summary: If you want my specialized training to help you understand native speakers when they speak fast, then make sure to join my membership. US conversations.

SEGMENT 1306:
Summary: Join us for a special training session. The link is also in the description below this episode. So click on that and join if you're interested in getting my specialized training.

SEGMENT 1307:
Summary: If you're a Spanish or a Portuguese speaker, you can also check out my e-books. you want to start reading fiction in English.

SEGMENT 1308:
Summary: Those links are down below as well. 

SEGMENT 1309:
Summary: The first one that I want to talk about is building a tree house. Some of my favorite things that I did outdoors because I did some things indoors as well. I had some fun activities that we did inside, but we want to focus on the outdoor activities today.

SEGMENT 1310:
Summary: Listen to episode 121 of the Listening Time Podcast. The topic of today's episode is a really interesting one. We are experiencing a lot of inflation in many countries around the world. It's not just one. particular thing. There are a lot of different things that can affect and influence the inflation rate. Of course, this isn't necessarily the most detailed explanation, but I think it kind of summarizes everything.

SEGMENT 1311:
Summary: Inflation is caused by having more currency units that are chasing goods and services without a greater increase in production of those goods and Services. So inflation is caused when currency units chase goods and goods without increasing production.

SEGMENT 1312:
Summary: A currency unit just refers to $1 or 1 euro or whatever, right? currency refers to the different money that we use in different countries. So the dollar is a currency, the euro is a Currency, et cetera.

SEGMENT 1313:
Summary: When we have more... dollars, for example, in circulation, but we don't have the same increase in the production of goods and services, this will result in inflation. Think of a basic example right in the years 2020 and 2021 in many places for example in the United States. When you suddenly increase the currency and there are more dollars or euros it makes prices go up right. That's just logic. And remember that I am recording this in 2023. So if you're listening to this in a future year, then this might not be as relevant.

SEGMENT 1314:
Summary: In the late 1800s in the US, there was an increase in the overall currency, the amount of currency units in the system. However, prices actually went down. How did that happen? Well, it's because there was so much production of goods and services. People are encouraged to spend money now because prices increase in the future if there is inflation. So people want to buy things now before prices increase and people wan to save. If inflation is 10% you want to earn at least 11% with your investments. So that you can beat the rate of inflation and your purchasing power won't go down. t to invest their money in something that will provide them a return that's greater than the rates of inflation.

SEGMENT 1315:
Summary: Right? So in the 

SEGMENT 1316:
Summary: If there is deflation this has the opposite effect it encourages people to save money. deflation might result in less investment because people don't need it. to chase the best forms of investment to beat the rate of inflation.

SEGMENT 1317:
Summary: this episode. 

SEGMENT 1318:
Summary: Inflation is a hot topic and many people are talking about this and complaining about it. So we'll talk about what inflation is, the causes and facts of inflation. We'll also talk about some countries that have inflation.

SEGMENT 1319:
Summary: Inflation, encourage the opposite behavior. If you want inflation to go down, you have to make it go up. That's the way to do it.

SEGMENT 1320:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 1321:
Summary: The word wages just refers to the amount of money that you make. So when it comes to wages and your income, this never keeps up with inflation if there's high inflation.

SEGMENT 1322:
Summary: So... 

SEGMENT 1323:
Summary: If there's 10% inflation, your wages are probably not going to go up by the same amount. So you might receive raises over time. Your overall purchasing power is not increasing because prices are increasing faster than your wages.

SEGMENT 1324:
Summary: So even. 

SEGMENT 1325:
Summary: Even though you might make more money in one year, your real wage is actually less. So life gets harder and harder to afford because your income doesn't increase as fast as inflation increases. Venezuela has around 400% inflation. That's really, really high. So imagine prices today being 400% what they were last year.

SEGMENT 1326:
Summary: That's not a good situation, of course. 

SEGMENT 1327:
Summary: Inflation has been a big problem in recent years. In Argentina, the rate of inflation has reached to over 100%. And inflation is also a big issue in Turkey right now.

SEGMENT 1328:
Summary: "It's close to 50% at the time of recording this. It's close enough to be a movie," he says. "It's going to be great"

SEGMENT 1329:
Summary: There are some countries right now that are dealing with major problems. because of really high inflation. Maybe you live in one of these countries and you know exactly what I'm talking about.

SEGMENT 1330:
Summary: The US doesn't have inflation anywhere near some of these other countries. In June of 2022 it reached 9.1%. which was the highest rate in many years in the US.

SEGMENT 1331:
Summary: This is an exclusive podcast. You can sign up for it if you feel ready. I'm excited for it. And before we start, remember that I have my new podcast available now, which is called US Conversations.

SEGMENT 1332:
Summary: The rate of inflation is gone down this year. However, at the time of recording this, we still have inflation. Prices aren't going down yet, but they're going up. up at a slower pace than they were a year ago.

SEGMENT 1333:
Summary: Well... 

SEGMENT 1334:
Summary: People who live in a country with really high inflation, they tend to immediately exchange their money for another more stable currency or for precious metals. So for example, in Turkey right now, if people receive their income in the local currency, they might try to Immediately exchange that for US dollars or for Euros or for gold. "I'm not talking about fuge, I'm talking about protection and safety, right?" he says. "I don't want people to think I'm trying to get them to do something I'm not doing."

SEGMENT 1335:
Summary: The US doesn't have the option of exchanging its currency for a more stable one. People in other countries might exchange their currency for dollars, but we already earned dollars.

SEGMENT 1336:
Summary: During periods of really high inflation, the government in that country will be... make it illegal to exchange over a certain amount of money for dollars or euros or whatever. So people exchange this illegally because they need a more stable currency.

SEGMENT 1337:
Summary: Listen to conversations at real speed in English. I talked to different English teachers from around the United States in different parts of the country. We have a normal conversation about many different topics and I provide the transcript for you.

SEGMENT 1338:
Summary: People might try to find assets that will grow faster in value than the rate of inflation. The word asset in this context refers to something that you own, that can produce a positive economic effect.

SEGMENT 1339:
Summary: Right. 

SEGMENT 1340:
Summary: People might buy things now rather than later because they know that prices will increase in the future. So they buyThings now. now. 

SEGMENT 1341:
Summary: In extreme cases of hyperinflation, people will just immediately buy things. They might immediately buy milk or buy rice or buy something because they know that it's better to do that right now than wait a week when the price is higher.

SEGMENT 1342:
Summary: Right? And... 

SEGMENT 1343:
Summary: If they buy something real, now it will increase in value very very fast. People might leave their country unfortunately and look for a more stable situation. So that's what might happen in times of very high inflation.

SEGMENT 1344:
Summary: I know it's not the funnest topic but I think it's interesting because a lot of us are dealing with this now. Remember that you can sign up for my new podcast if you want to hear real conversations in English with the transcript of course.

SEGMENT 1345:
Summary: The weekly Newsquiz tests your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN iReport.com. This week, Jarrett ponders the case of a man who was arrested for a crime he didn't commit. Find out why he was arrested.

SEGMENT 1346:
Summary: If you like this podcast, please share it with anyone else you know who's learned English. If you want my specialized training to help you understand native speakers when they speak fast, the link is also in the description below this episode.

SEGMENT 1347:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 1348:
Summary: Inflation means that there is an increase in prices and a fall in purchasing power. This just means that your money buys less stuff. You can't buy as much stuff with the same amount of money.

SEGMENT 1349:
Summary: Listen to episode 132 of the Listening Time Podcast. I hope that you feel motivated to continue on with your listening practice and keep on doing what you're doing.

SEGMENT 1350:
Summary: And just... 

SEGMENT 1351:
Summary: I want to encourage you to keep on going and thank you for listening and using this podcast as one of your tools to help you with your English. The topic is introverts. or maybe really shy around strangers and they can be shy in group settings. If you're an introvert, that doesn't mean you're always quiet and reserved, right? I want to differentiate that. Another characteristic of introverts is that introverts tend to feel drained by social situations.

SEGMENT 1352:
Summary:  introverts tend to feel drained by social situations. So, after a social situation, you might feel exhausted. You might feel like you need some alone time. You want to just go home and be by yourself for a while.

SEGMENT 1353:
Summary: Nautrovert is a really common characteristic of a nautroverted. So that's one of the biggest ones. That's a really popular name for people who are a bit of a recluse.

SEGMENT 1354:
Summary: If you're an introvert, you feel like you're regaining your energy. You feel like your battery is being charged. Solitude just refers to being alone.

SEGMENT 1355:
Summary:  introverts have this trait often where they think things through in their head. Rather than say things out loud all the time. The one other trait of introverts which can definitely be a weakness. Introverts often have a hard time confronting people when they need to. So that's going to cause some pain, some anxiety for introverts when those situations arise. And how about extroverts? When you're outgoing, this means that you're someone naturally talks and engages people. Extroverts tend to be like this. usually, and extroverts actually enjoy having this attention of being in a group.

SEGMENT 1356:
Summary: Center of attention in a group of people.    center of attention  in agroup of people,   Center of attention, center of focus.

SEGMENT 1357:
Summary: Extroverts thrive a lot more. group settings and being in the spotlight. Extroverts can feel confident in talking and being the center of attention and they aren't constantly feeling self-conscious about themselves.  extroverts don't need as much solitude. They feel that they have been recharged and energized from that social situation. And that can...

SEGMENT 1358:
Summary: This week on US Conversations, we talk about whether you're an introvert or an extrovert. This has a lot of influence over your life, so I think this is a very important topic.

SEGMENT 1359:
Summary: Sometimes extroverts have trouble being alone. They might feel bad or anxious when they spend more time alone. Extroverts are often more assertive. So they're not as afraid of confrontation as introverts are. Introverts often learn through observation and our very thoughts. Extroverts can do that too, but there's also a tendency for some extroverts to be more distracted.

SEGMENT 1360:
Summary: "They might not spend as much time just observing one thing and thinking and processing one idea they might go from one to the next. So they might... more distracted in certain situations," he says.

SEGMENT 1361:
Summary: Extraverts can sometimes beat like that. So that might be a negative for some extraverts. Right. So you might disagree with that if you're an extrovert because you might not have that trait.

SEGMENT 1362:
Summary: There are also ambaverts, which would kind of be like in middle. Not completely introverted and not completely extroverted, they're kind of in the middle. A lot of people fall in this category here.

SEGMENT 1363:
Summary: The link is down below. That's patreon.com slash us conversations. And if you want my specialized training to help you listen better and pronounce better, then make sure to check out my membership.

SEGMENT 1364:
Summary: If someone were to ask me, are you an introvert or an extrovert? I would 100% say introvert. However, if I want to be a little bit more specific, I would say that I'm more of an ambrovert. That's kind of the phrase. that I prefer because I'm definitely not anextrovert in general. There are certain situations where you suddenly change and it's like you're an extrovert. Depending on the context, the environment, your mood, the topic that people are talking about, who is around you, depending on these factors, you might suddenly seem like a complete extroverted. and then afterwards I go back to being an introvert.

SEGMENT 1365:
Summary: In general, I don't want to be the center of attention. I really enjoy being by myself. I can be by myself for hours or days. non-stop and feel great. So obviously I'm an introvert because an extrovert wouldn't say that. "When I go home, let's say I feel drained. I feel like I've been through a lot," he says. "I feel drained," he adds, "like I've had a lot of work to do"

SEGMENT 1366:
Summary: Even when I act and feel like an extrovert afterwards I want my solitude. I want to be alone. So I'm more introverted in that sense. And what's the best thing to be? Is it best to be an introvert, an extovert, or an ambivert?

SEGMENT 1367:
Summary: "There's no best thing. Of course, this is just our personality. However, I think it's best for us to understand and identify"

SEGMENT 1368:
Summary: If you like this podcast, please share it. Please give it a five star rating and writer review if you can. Remember if you want those advanced episodes in particular, the link is also down below. That's patreon.com slash listening time.

SEGMENT 1369:
Summary: Focus on the weaknesses, the things that can be difficult for us, and try to train in those areas because you can get better at certain things. If you're an introvert. You can train yourself and get better in social settings. And if you are an extrovert, you can training yourself to enjoy solitude more. "It's a really important step in your language learning process to be able to come. understand multiple native speakers talking with each other," she says.

SEGMENT 1370:
Summary: If you want my training to help you become a better listener and to pronounce better, then make sure to sign up for my membership. That's patreon.com slash US conversations. So go down and click on the link below.

SEGMENT 1371:
Summary: The Daily Discussion is a weekly podcast from CNN.com. This week, Jarrett Bellini tackles the issues of the day. Have a question for Jarrett? Submit at the bottom of the page.

SEGMENT 1372:
Summary: We're also going to talk about one other type of person, an ambivert. We'll get into that later. Okay, let's talk about introverts and extroverts.

SEGMENT 1373:
Summary: Most people are just familiar with introverts and extroverts. But most people are also familiar with extroverted and introverted people. We want to make sure that no one is left out of this.

SEGMENT 1374:
Summary: We're talking about the two opposite extremes on some scale. These two... ends of the spectrum. Remember that when we talk about the ends of. the spectrum, we're talking About the Two Ends of the Spectrum.

SEGMENT 1375:
Summary: An introvert has many characters. and extroverts do as well. So let me talk about some of them. So on one end, we have introverts and on the other end, We have Extroverts.

SEGMENT 1376:
Summary: An introvert is usually characterized as being someone who is generally quiet and reserved. When people think of introverts, they usually think of people that can be a little bit shy around people they don't know. After this trip I'm probably not gonna travel for a while. I'm kind of looking forward to having that for a little while but I hope that some of you have some interesting trips planned for maybe this summer or this winter.

SEGMENT 1377:
Summary: Retirement isn't necessarily seen as some amazing thing, right? People don't have this idea that they're gonna have a fantastic life once they're retired. Americans kind of fantasize.

SEGMENT 1378:
Summary: We tend to think that this will be a great time in our lives and people often prepare very hard for many years for retirement. So many retired people like to travel to many places and take up new hobbies and find fun things to do. In English, the word ache refers to a pain that you have. For example, if I say I have a headache, I'm saying that I have pain. head.

SEGMENT 1379:
Summary: When you get older you tend to have more aches and pains. Your body doesn't feel the same as it felt really younger. You might have some more serious health conditions.

SEGMENT 1380:
Summary: When you get older and you retire in the US you can often have a lot of fun. So we never know what our health would be like when we're older. And so that can cause maybe some fear when it comes to getting older.

SEGMENT 1381:
Summary: Your body might not be in the best shape to have all of this fun. But on the... other hand, your body might be in a good shape.

SEGMENT 1382:
Summary: I think my advice to myself would be to try to do... well now in order to reap the benefits later. In English, when we say that you reap benefits, we're saying that you receive the benefits of something that you do now. I hope you get the chance to do some fun stuff or travel to some interesting places this year. And of course, I hope your English learning is going well. And if you're having trouble understanding native speakers and you need more help understanding fast speech, especially when native speakers reduce.

SEGMENT 1383:
Summary: In the US older people tend to try to be as independent as possible. This is just part of our culture. We are more independent than other cultures. Most people don't really want other people to take care of them.

SEGMENT 1384:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 1385:
Summary: People in their 70s and even people in their 80s might still be very independent and might be able to do everything for themselves. If they can, they tend to do that. However, sometimes they decide to go to a retirement community. These are communities or residential buildings that are designed for seniors. A lot of people like those types of communities where those reliefs meant the wholves, the older because it really provides a lot of socializing and things like that. So we have those retirement communities and they have easy access to help if they need it.

SEGMENT 1386:
Summary: If people need a little more help with their daily tasks, their daily life, maybe their health, then they might live in an assisted living facility. This is place where...

SEGMENT 1387:
Summary: People who aren't completely independent might live and they receive some help. In a nursing home, you have all the help that you need someone is always there to provide you.

SEGMENT 1388:
Summary: I encourage you to sign up for my membership so that you can get my specialized training where I help you identify these different reductions and sounds and patterns that will help you become a little more comfortable with fast speed.

SEGMENT 1389:
Summary: "That is kind of a long-term care facility. We might call it. is necessary," he said. "That is what we are going to do"

SEGMENT 1390:
Summary: "You receive everything that you need in order to live your daily life and you have all the help that you might want" "So that's for people that really can't take care of themselves anymore. So those are some different. living situations that people might have once they reach an older age"

SEGMENT 1391:
Summary: In Mexico, this is really common. a lot of grandparents live with their children and their grandchildren, especially if one of the grandparents has passed away. In the US it's not as common.

SEGMENT 1392:
Summary: normal. 

SEGMENT 1393:
Summary: "I can't really remember having friends who weren't the children of immigrants who had this type of living situation," she says. "So that should show you that it's not that common here"

SEGMENT 1394:
Summary: "I tend to like the idea of having your parents live with you when they get too old to take care of themselves," he says. "That's something that I have always offered"

SEGMENT 1395:
Summary: "I think that if it's possible, that would be a nice thing to be able to do for my parents," he says. "Many other people might not like that idea," he adds.

SEGMENT 1396:
Summary: In the US, older people are encouraged to take care of their health. It's common to see older people walking early in the morning or at different times during the day.

SEGMENT 1397:
Summary: I don't really see a lot of younger people walking around the neighborhood at this time. Older people tend to have to work or go to school or whatever. But you get my point.

SEGMENT 1398:
Summary: "I see a lot of older people walking around the neighborhood pretty early in the morning and they do this in groups sometimes or they might," she said.

SEGMENT 1399:
Summary: Join my membership and you'll get my listening practice seminars. You'll get that specialized training. Click on the link in the episode description below this episode to join my membership.

SEGMENT 1400:
Summary: Mystery stories that I wrote in English and translated into Spanish and into Portuguese. And of course, if you're a Spanish or a Portuguese speaker, you can get my ebook, my collection of three short stories.

SEGMENT 1401:
Summary: So... 

SEGMENT 1402:
Summary: The most popular sport for seniors in the US is golf. Tennis is definitely harder on your body than golf. It's common for them to try to engage in light exercise. There are plenty of other sports that would be good options for seniors. Some older people like to garden. They might try to take really good care of their garden or their front yard or back yard.

SEGMENT 1403:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1404:
Summary: I hope this episode was interesting for you or remember that you have the transfer. I will be back next week with a new episode. I hope you enjoy it.

SEGMENT 1405:
Summary: script available if you need it. 

SEGMENT 1406:
Summary: If you want to practice with the difficult sounds of English and you need help understanding native speakers when they speak fast, make sure to become a listening time member so that you can access my listening practice seminars.

SEGMENT 1407:
Summary: So you can click on it. 

SEGMENT 1408:
Summary: If you want to practice reading fiction in English, the links to those are also in the episode description.  If you want  to practice reading fiction in English, the links to those are also in the episode description.

SEGMENT 1409:
Summary: Today we're going to talk about old age and I'll focus specifically on the US. What old age is like in the US and maybe what life is like for older people. So hopefully this will be an interesting topic for you. We tend to associate old age with retirement with being retired and not working anymore. In the US retirement is seen positively. So there are some positive feelings when it comes to old age.

SEGMENT 1410:
Summary: Connor: I think that pretty much everybody has room for improvement. I'm not talking from the perspective of someone who has tons and tons of patients. So I'm talking as someone who needs to improve in this area. "I hate being in traffic. It's one of the worst things. So if we're not patient then traffic can really bother us. It can really annoy us and sometimes it can ruin your day" "If we get bothered by traffic, this doesn't help us. It's completely... out of our control," he says. "It's not a good thing," he adds. "We're not in control of the weather"

SEGMENT 1411:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 1412:
Summary: "We can't do anything to change the situation, to make the traffic suddenly go away. So I don't think it's worth it to lose our patience," he says.

SEGMENT 1413:
Summary: We don't wanna lose our cool just because traffic is banned. By the way, when we say that you lose your cool, this means that you losing your patience and you snap, get mad, get really frustrated.

SEGMENT 1414:
Summary: "Sometimes when I'm stuck in traffic, I get frustrated and I let it affect my mood, but I definitely shouldn't do this. So that's the first thing. that comes to mind because I'm guilty of this," he said.

SEGMENT 1415:
Summary: We need patience when dealing with a difficult person. Another situation in which we need patience is when we're dealing with an angry person. We need to be patient with ourselves and with others.

SEGMENT 1416:
Summary: Sometimes we have to deal with difficult people and it's important to not let them agree. us down to the level where we're getting really mad for no good reason. Sometimes we get angry at another person for a legitimate reason. You are not perfect. By the way, we use that phrase gloom for improvement. This just means that you have space to improve. r something. to patients.

SEGMENT 1417:
Summary: We all have gloom for improvement when it comes to patients. There are still improvements that you can make. Sometimes we are the difficult people. Sometimes I am the difficult person or you are the hard person.

SEGMENT 1418:
Summary: "We sometimes lose patience when we have to listen to other people talk" "People like to be the ones to share things and talk about things, but not everybody likes to listen" We should all practice with just being able to shut our mouths and listen to other people speak and not just immediately try to talk. If you do this, if you demonstrate patience in this situation, you're going to have better relationships. "They ask me questions and they frame the question kind of like saying that there's something wrong with them. Why aren't I improving how I should be?" she says.

SEGMENT 1419:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Please submit your best shots of the U.S. for next week. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery.

SEGMENT 1420:
Summary: US Conversations is a weekly podcast from CNN.com/soulmatestories. This week, Jarrett looks at what we can all do to be more patient.

SEGMENT 1421:
Summary: The vast majority of the time when people ask me this question, it's not like these people are studying in the complete wrong way and wasting their time. It's not that. constantly get questions like this and these are legitimate questions.

SEGMENT 1422:
Summary: "I've been speaking Spanish for over a decade. Not actively, I don't actively study Spanish," he says. "I'm constantly learning new things, new words. There are things that I miss understand" Spanish is a language that takes a long time to learn and master. It can be reached at an advanced level in a relatively short period of time depending on motivation.

SEGMENT 1423:
Summary: We need to be patient when we are trying to achieve a goal. Learning a language is one goal. That's one example. But when... we want to achieve any goal. We need patience.

SEGMENT 1424:
Summary: If you want to lose weight, that's not going to happen tomorrow. You can't just expect that to happen in 24 hours. You need to stick with it for a certain period of time before you see these results.

SEGMENT 1425:
Summary: We talk about a bunch of different topics and you get to learn a lot about the US, culture, different topics. These conversations are really interesting and we speak naturally. So you can follow along and you also have definitions of new words and phrases that learn some new skill.

SEGMENT 1426:
Summary: "Patience is necessary when we set goals and we want to achieve these goals" "You need to accept that this is going to take some time and eventually you'll reach your goal" All of us are in this situation regardless of which country you live in. utions with the best customer service and all of that.

SEGMENT 1427:
Summary: When his wife was going through the immigration process to live in the US, this took a long time. So we need to have... patients and know that these processes are going to take a while.

SEGMENT 1428:
Summary: When you are parenting, when you have kids, your level of patience is tested in a way unlike anything else. So that was a big one. And one more situation. that I wanted to mention, probably the most important one, is when you are ...

SEGMENT 1429:
Summary: If you don't have patience, this is going to be very hard for you. You're going to deal with a lot of... situations in which you are annoyed or irritated or you feel desperate because you know how something needs to be.

SEGMENT 1430:
Summary: If you want my advanced podcast episodes, if you want to practice with me speaking at normal speed, then make sure to sign up for my membership. So if you're interested in that, the link is in the description below this episode. That's patreon.com slash us conversations.

SEGMENT 1431:
Summary: The video is part of a larger series of videos. The full series is available to watch on YouTube. Click here to watch the rest of the videos.

SEGMENT 1432:
Summary: Kids need instruction and discipline and they need time. So we can't expect them to just be born with these skills. That's simply not reality. As a parent, patience is necessary.

SEGMENT 1433:
Summary: I hope this episode was interesting for you, and hopefully it got you thinking a little bit about your patient's levels. For me, that's probably the most important situation in which patients is definitely required.

SEGMENT 1434:
Summary: Make sure to sign up for my US Conversations Podcast. And if you feel ready to practice with real conversations between native speakers, then make sure to Sign up for the US Conversational Podcast.

SEGMENT 1435:
Summary: Make sure to sign up at patreon.com slash US Conversations. The link is in the description below this episode. These conversations are really interesting and it's great practice for your listening.

SEGMENT 1436:
Summary: If you're a Spanish or Portuguese speaker and you want to read fiction in English, then check out my ebook. And if you like this podcast, I'm really appreciated. If you become a listening time family member, you get to new advanced episodes every month.

SEGMENT 1437:
Summary: Check out my ebook if you want to read fiction in English. And if you're a Spanish or a Portuguese speaker, check out my eBook.

SEGMENT 1438:
Summary: Those links are down below as well. 

SEGMENT 1439:
Summary: If you like this podcast, please give it a 5-star rating, write a review, and share it with anyone else you know who's learning English. Alright, let's get started.

SEGMENT 1440:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1441:
Summary: "I need to improve a lot. This is an area in which I need to improving a lot," he says. "I'm not good enough yet. I'm getting better, but I'm not there yet"

SEGMENT 1442:
Summary: Connor: I'm not the most patient person in the world. I look at my wife for example, she's more patient than I am. I try to learn from her because there are times when we're both dealing with the same situation. CNN's John Sutter talks about attractions in San Diego. Sutter: "What do I mean by attractions? Well, I'm referring to like, theme parks"

SEGMENT 1443:
Summary: SeaWorld is a big, awesome aquarium here in San Diego. There are all kinds of different animals to see there. One of the things that makes it unique is that it has these different shows.

SEGMENT 1444:
Summary: SeaWorld puts on these amazing shows in which these animals actually perform. It's pretty crazy when you think about it and when you see what these animals are trained to do.

SEGMENT 1445:
Summary: When I was a kid, they had this show, which was a Sea Lion and Otter show. These are two different animals. If you don't know what they are, you should look them up. There were also human performers human actors there too and they performed with these animals. There are also different rides, parts that are going on. hide, refers to this attraction in which you can get on something and it takes you fast or it spins you around or whatever like a roller coaster is a ride. And I went a long time ago, there was this 4D Ruby 4D because... It was 3D, but it also added the element of like spraying you with water and things like that as part of SeaWorld is definitely an interesting option to consider if you want to go to a theme park in San Diego. Another theme park which is located in the north of San Diego is Legoland. The whole theme of this park is Legos. . .      “I’m sorry.” “What’s up?” you ask. “I don’t know. What’ going on.’ “You’re in trouble,” I tell you. ‘I�’ I’ve been in trouble. . ‘What happened?’ you

SEGMENT 1446:
Summary: Legoland is a theme park here that is completely Lego focused. Just the fact that its theme is Legos makes it very attractive for her families with young children because kids love Legos.

SEGMENT 1447:
Summary: The Legos Amusement Park will be open to the public. It will be located in a former toy factory in New York City. The park is expected to open later this year.

SEGMENT 1448:
Summary: San Diego's Legoland is more for younger kids. There are different rides but these rides aren't really scary. Besides these rides there are also other attractions like different play areas with... Legos. CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 1449:
Summary: I think you know what I'm referring to. 

SEGMENT 1450:
Summary:  Lego Land is a place you might want to consider going to with your kids. Next, I want to talk about Belmont Park. This isn't as famous as the other attractions.

SEGMENT 1451:
Summary: There's a special place in my heart for something. We use that phrase in English, that expression. We're talking about something... 

SEGMENT 1452:
Summary: "We might have good memories that place or we might have positive feelings associated with that place. that will always be special to us, even years later, even if it doesn't seem that amazing now"

SEGMENT 1453:
Summary: I want to read a review that someone left for me on Apple podcasts. I've heard some podcasters do this where theyread a review from one of their listeners. It's kind of like thanking people.

SEGMENT 1454:
Summary: San Diego's Belmont Park is right on the beach and has a really california field. The Santa Monica pier is a wooden structure that extends from the beach out over into the water. "There's this ping park on the pier, on this beach. And it reminds me of the Santa Monica pier. And maybe that was the inspiration behind this show," she says.

SEGMENT 1455:
Summary: I don't know. 

SEGMENT 1456:
Summary: But that whole feel is very... 

SEGMENT 1457:
Summary: Belmont Park is right on the water. It has the classic amusement park attractions like the roller coaster and a merry-go-round. It's not a really huge thing park. However, for me, I really like it. San Diego is our zoo. has this very California feel to it. It reminds me of things like rocket power, like I mentioned. So, that's another attraction that isn't as popular, but I wanted to include it.

SEGMENT 1458:
Summary: "I've already talked about this before, so I'm just gonna talk briefly about it again," he says. "I'm gonna talk about my relationship with my wife. And I'm going to talk about how I feel about her and how she feels about me"

SEGMENT 1459:
Summary: The San Diego Zoo is one of the biggest and best zoos in the country. An annual pass just means you have a membership for one year where you can go whenever you want.

SEGMENT 1460:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 1461:
Summary: "Your episodes help me a lot Robinson. But let me read one. This was written by Kali and Jesus I think. And the review says, your episodes help you a lot"

SEGMENT 1462:
Summary: "Our annual passes expired. This means that they're no longer valid, right, because the year has already passed. So they're expired now, so we probably won't go any time soon, but we might... by annual passes again next year"

SEGMENT 1463:
Summary: and you get my point. 

SEGMENT 1464:
Summary: The Sky Fari is where you take a cable car and it takes you up over the zoo. It's cool unless you're afraid of heights.

SEGMENT 1465:
Summary: The zoo in San Diego is a really family friendly place. There's a kids area that's really cool where kids can play and there are a lot of different interesting things for young kids. The zoo is probably one of the top three attractions that tourists are interested in seeing when they're here in San Diego. Soak City was a really fun water park with water slimes.

SEGMENT 1466:
Summary: "It was awesome and I'm kind of sad that it's not there anymore. Now it's a different theme park called Sesame Place," he says.

SEGMENT 1467:
Summary: "I. love what you shared. Thank you so much. Love what you share," she said. "I'm so proud of you," she added.

SEGMENT 1468:
Summary: Thank you, Kali and Jesus for your review and for listening. I'm improving my pronunciation and English fluency. Keep it up. If you leave me a review on Spotify or Apple podcasts, I might read it like that in a future episode.

SEGMENT 1469:
Summary: "I have awesome memories of going to Soak City as a kid and going down these big water slides that at the time seemed really scary to me," he says. "I wanted to go down them and be cool and when I actually finally had the courage to do the really big... slides"

SEGMENT 1470:
Summary: Sesame Place was my favorite attraction in San Diego as a kid more than any other place. It was really fun for me and I wanted to go again and again and I have great memories of that theme park.

SEGMENT 1471:
Summary: But now it's gone. 

SEGMENT 1472:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 1473:
Summary: San Diego is home to some of the world's most popular theme parks. Some of the most popular attractions include the San Diego Zoo and SeaWorld.

SEGMENT 1474:
Summary: If you feel like these podcast episodes are getting a little easy for you, then make sure to sign up for my advanced podcast episodes by becoming a listening time family member. That's patreon.com slash listening time. And if you want my other podcast in which I talked to different English from around the country about tons of different topics, then you can also go down and click on the link below.

SEGMENT 1475:
Summary: Please give this podcast a five star rating and write a review. And please share this podcast with anyone else you know. of course. And if you want my advanced episodes, then make sure to become a listening type family member. The link is in the description below.

SEGMENT 1476:
Summary: The weekly Newsquiz tests your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN iReport.com. This week, we tested the quiz to see how well you knew the story behind the story. Find out how to test your knowledge by answering questions in the comments below.

SEGMENT 1477:
Summary: You know what time it is. It's listening time. All right, let's get started. Are your ears ready? You know the time.

SEGMENT 1478:
Summary: San Diego is home to some of the world's most popular tourist attractions. Some of the most popular attractions include the San Diego Zoo, San Diego State University and the Coachella Valley Music Festival.

SEGMENT 1479:
Summary: SeaWorld is not technically an aquarium. But in many ways it kind of is an aquarium because it has tons of ocean animals. So it might not be a traditional conventional aquarium.

SEGMENT 1480:
Summary: However, 

SEGMENT 1481:
Summary: This is the 144th episode of the Listening Time Podcast. We're going to talk about buying a car in the US. There are some different options and things that you need to consider.

SEGMENT 1482:
Summary: There are a number of things you could possibly do. You could buy an older car in cash maybe because it's cheaper. When we say that you buy something in cash this means that you're paying the whole price.

SEGMENT 1483:
Summary: price now. 

SEGMENT 1484:
Summary: You pay a down payment which is the initial amount that you pay and then the rest of the money gets paid off over a certain number of months.

SEGMENT 1485:
Summary: That's fine-ancing. 

SEGMENT 1486:
Summary: You could buy an older car in cash because it's cheaper or maybe you want a car that's used but that isn't that old and it's still kind of expensive so you can finance that used car. In the US, you might see offers like this on the website Craigslist. When you buy a used car from a private seller, you might find cheaper options. However, it's also riskier in most cases because you don't know this person. You don'tknow if they're being honest with you and you.

SEGMENT 1487:
Summary: Some car buyers don't have the ability to do a full inspection of the car before they buy it. Hopefully you can bring a mechanic or something to go check it out.

SEGMENT 1488:
Summary: "I've done this before. I bought an old used car in Mexico from a private seller and I brought a mechanic with me and   "

SEGMENT 1489:
Summary: Even if you take a mechanic with you to go check it out, you still run the risk of buying a car that has problems. I didn't get a full report from the mechanic about all the problems, and then when we bought it, we realized it had a ton of problems. it still went badly.

SEGMENT 1490:
Summary: When you buy from a private seller, you don't have as many options for different things. You're not going to get a warranty, a warranty refers to a guarantee that the seller gives you. So those are some things you need to consider. You can also buy a used car from dealership maybe aused car dealership. You don't have to buy a used car from a private seller, you can go to a dealership. First of all, you'll have to deal with a salesperson. These salespeople aren't known for having the most integrity.

SEGMENT 1491:
Summary: If you buy from a dealership you're probably gonna have less risk it's probably going to be a safer option. You can pay in cash, pay the full amount, or you can finance the car. You can finance a car in two ways. You can get the financing directly from the dealership. Or you can go through a bank and get an auto loan from a bank. And then use that to finance the car.

SEGMENT 1492:
Summary: If you already need to finance the car, you think that it's worth it to just do a new car. And of course, there are some advantages here because the car has no history. It hasn't been driven before.

SEGMENT 1493:
Summary: You're probably going to get a warranty if you're buying it through the dealer and it's new. And so if something happens within a certain time or a certain number of miles that you drive, then you know that you can go to that.

SEGMENT 1494:
Summary: If you finance a new car, the interest rate is usually lower. So you don't have to pay as much in terms of interest rate. And sometimes you can get a really good deal like...

SEGMENT 1495:
Summary: I'll talk in general about this process and sure you'll learn some new vocabulary words in this episode. So that's what we'll talk about today. And remember that if you want my help, my training to help you understand English speakers.

SEGMENT 1496:
Summary: There are some downsides to financing a new car. my brother-in-law recently bought a car and he got a really low interest rate because they were having a special deal at the end of the year. So you can find those deals sometimes.

SEGMENT 1497:
Summary: When you lease a vehicle, this means that you get to drive a new car. Usually for three years. And then after those three years, you either return it to the dealership or you can buy it if you want to keep that car. Some people just keep doing this. They never actually buy the vehicle they just... keep leasing new vehicles and they always drive new cars. There are some different ways you can buy a car. either used or new from a private seller, a dealership, lease it. And besides just the method or the way that you're gonna pay for your car, there are tons of other things that you need to consider. In the US this is called the mileage. es it's been driven. In other countries it will be kilometers, of course. If you buy a used car that has a lot of miles on it, that might be risky because that car has been driven for a long time.

SEGMENT 1498:
Summary: Make sure to sign up for my membership to get my listening practice seminars. And if you become a family member, then you'll also get my advanced podcast episodes in which I speak fast.

SEGMENT 1499:
Summary: The history of the vehicle. paying attention to because I'm looking to buy a used car, not a new one. So has it had accidents before? And if it has had many accidents, you might think twice about buying it because you don't know if. those accidents caused certain damage.

SEGMENT 1500:
Summary: So that's... 

SEGMENT 1501:
Summary: In the US, the phrase salvage title refers to the fact that this vehicle suffered significant damage like it was in a huge accident. So the insurance company judged This car as being too damaged to messed up to fix so they didn't even bother doing that.

SEGMENT 1502:
Summary: If the car has a salvage title, you also want to consider if the car was used just for personal use or was it used by a company before? You'll see a lot of rental cars that used to be rental cars and now they're for sale. Older cars tend to need more maintenance than newer cars. CNN. ly is a sister site to CNN.com. CNN. ly will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Please submit your best shots of the U.S. for next week.

SEGMENT 1503:
Summary: The different trim levels of a car can have different features. So if you buy the base trim level it's just gonna have the basic features. If you buy a higher trim level then you get other features. Of course, you'll want to consider that as well.

SEGMENT 1504:
Summary: Maybe you get a wireless phone. 

SEGMENT 1505:
Summary: The transcript and the definitions of key words and phrases are down below in the episode description. So go down and check that out if you're interested and you have the transcript for this episode down below for free as well.

SEGMENT 1506:
Summary: You get a built-in navigation system or whatever it might be. You get a charger or you get a navigation system. You can also get a GPS system to help with navigation.

SEGMENT 1507:
Summary: When your car toes something else this means that it pulls that thing behind it. Different trim levels have different features. So you have to look at that as well.

SEGMENT 1508:
Summary: So maybe... 

SEGMENT 1509:
Summary: You need to take into consideration a lot of different things before you buy a car. You want a car with towing capacity, maybe you want a certain type of engine, transmission. So I think that's all I wanted to talk about.

SEGMENT 1510:
Summary: The car is one of many options that we have in the US in terms of buying a vehicle. It's one of the most affordable options in the U.S. to buy a car.

SEGMENT 1511:
Summary: I hope this episode was good practice for your listening. Sign up for my membership if you want my specialized training to help you understand native speakers when they speak fast.

SEGMENT 1512:
Summary: Please give it a 5 star rating and write a review on Spotify or Apple Podcasts. The link is down below the episode description. That's patreon.com slash listening time. And if you want my US Conversations Podcast, the link is also down below.

SEGMENT 1513:
Summary: "I'm looking for a three row SUV, so kind of... bigger car and the one that I'm considering actually seats eight people. So that's a lot of seats and I like that," he says.

SEGMENT 1514:
Summary: There are some different options that I need to consider and I haven't decided yet on how exactly I'm gonna go about buying this car. But let's pretend that you're in my position and you're  in the US you want to buy a car what are your options and what does this process look like.

SEGMENT 1515:
Summary: Listen to episode 136 of the Listening Time Podcast. Connor: I hope your year is starting off well and that you're motivated to keep on practicing your English.

SEGMENT 1516:
Summary: In today's episode, we're going to talk about how to have good conversations in your own language. I'll also talk about some tips about how you can have better conversations in English when you're speaking this foreign language. If I stopped asking questions, then the other person would be put in a position where they have to ask me a question. It's great when they know how to ask questions as well, but in general most people don't really have this skill. You'll make it easier for the other.  have more successful conversations and you'll make them easier for each other. Have a successful conversation with your partner.

SEGMENT 1517:
Summary: person. 

SEGMENT 1518:
Summary: "People can tell if you're listening," he says. "Most people can get a ceiling about...  Most people can't listen to what you're saying"

SEGMENT 1519:
Summary: Don't just be anxious for your turn to speak. All of us do this. This is natural for all of us. We all want to share our thoughts.

SEGMENT 1520:
Summary: When you're too anxious to do that, it shows the other person can tell that you're just waiting for them to finish or you're trying to interrupt them or something like that. But don't be too... anxious toDo that.

SEGMENT 1521:
Summary: And that's not good. 

SEGMENT 1522:
Summary: We don't want to make the other person feel like they can't complete their thoughts because we want to talk. Another tip that I have for you is to practice with your body language. This refers to any non-verbal things that you do. We communicate with our words, but we also communicate with things besides our words. It could be with your tone of voice if you have a certain tone that can communicate something. It can be the way that you use your body or your position, how you're positioned, or it could be whether you're smiling. E things are important. ese things are not important, but they are important to us.    We need to make sure that we do what is important.

SEGMENT 1523:
Summary: Based on cultural background or maybe their personality, it's good to adjust your body language accordingly. Some people will respond better to certain body language and some people will response worse.

SEGMENT 1524:
Summary: A body language Q would be some movement or something that you do that communicates a message to the other person. So if you... give them the proper body language cues, then they'll see that you're listening. They might even ask you, you know?

SEGMENT 1525:
Summary: Be aware that people respond differently to different body language. Practice with your segues and transitions. A segway is a transition between one thing and another. It would be a natural way to transition between topics.

SEGMENT 1526:
Summary: You don't always have to have good segues and transitions between topics. However, it does make the conversation flow better. If you are someone that can naturally...

SEGMENT 1527:
Summary: Make sure that you don't have really abrupt transitions. Then the conversation feels better. By the way the word abrupt means something that just happens all of a sudden that is not very pleasant.

SEGMENT 1528:
Summary: Join my membership so you can get my specialized listening training. And specifically if you become a family member, you'll get my advanced podcast episodes where I speak at New York and New Orleans speed.

SEGMENT 1529:
Summary: It's a transition in this case that is not smooth and that does not flow well. It can seem a little bit abrupt if the other person isn't expecting that, and it's okay. Like I said, this isn't absolutely necessary, but it helps if you can make the transition smoother.

SEGMENT 1530:
Summary: When you're not working, what do you like to do in your free time? So you see how that transition included the previous topic. We were talking about work and then I used that to it segway into the next topic.

SEGMENT 1531:
Summary: Trying to avoid awkward silences is a skill that you have to develop over time. You're gonna have to practice with this and it's gonna take a lot of experience. There are only a few of them in your conversation. t there are only one or two of them  in your conversation t.

SEGMENT 1532:
Summary: Ask follow-up questions when someone finishes talking. It helps the conversation to continue to flow without uncomfortable silences. If you ask a question it also gives you a little time to think of your next question or your next transition.

SEGMENT 1533:
Summary: If you can not have these awkward silences, that will really help the conversation feel better. When I'm talking to a student, I don't really care how well they speak. However, I do care about how much they can understand when I'm speaking.

SEGMENT 1534:
Summary: If you're talking to someone who's not an English teacher, it would be even worse, right? That person does not have a lot of experience changing the way that they speak to help someone else understand them better. So they're probably not going to be very patient in this conversation. " understanding is much more important than speaking. So number one, in order to have a good  situation.  that situation. That's why I say that understanding is  important," he said.

SEGMENT 1535:
Summary: First be concerned with actually being able to understand people, okay? And when you don't understand someone, because that will happen sometimes, even if you have a good level of listening, make sure that you apologize and you ask politely for them to repeat it. Don't say repeat please.

SEGMENT 1536:
Summary: "Say, could you say that one more time or could you repeat that? Something like that in a nice way," he says. "It's a good way to say it. It's a nice thing to say"

SEGMENT 1537:
Summary: You apologize, meaning you accept. to responsibility and then ask them to repeat. If you just say, say that again more slowly or repeat that, they're not going to feel good. They're probably going to have a bad reaction if you command them to do something.

SEGMENT 1538:
Summary: something. 

SEGMENT 1539:
Summary: You can poke fun at your English and just lightly joke about the fact that you made a mistake or whatever laugh a little bit. Don't make it really serious or negative. Make it funny because you're acknowledging it.

SEGMENT 1540:
Summary: "Don't act really frustrated or ashamed of your English. Don't act like you don't know how to do it," he says.

SEGMENT 1541:
Summary: Poke fun at your English, but don't denigrate it. And don't be overly focused on accuracy. No one likes that. Okay?

SEGMENT 1542:
Summary: "Just about having good conversations. First of all, let's start with having conversations in your own language" "Native speakers don't really care about mistakes that you make as long as they can understand you well" If you're understandable and you make mistakes, the other person is not just going to focus on your mistakes. They're going to be thinking about the actual topic that you're talking about talking about. You are probably thinking a little bit about the language because you're speaking a foreign language.

SEGMENT 1543:
Summary: So need. 

SEGMENT 1544:
Summary: Speakers don't really care about your mistakes as long as they can understand you. It's better to speak a little more fluently than a little bit more accurately. Try to be accurate, but don't focus on that too much. These are some of the most common phrases we use in our own language. Use them to help you talk to people in your own language or in English.

SEGMENT 1545:
Summary: And remember that. 

SEGMENT 1546:
Summary: Make sure to join my membership so you can get my listening practice seminars. I show you the different patterns that are hard for you to understand and I help you understand them.

SEGMENT 1547:
Summary: If you like this podcast, please share it with anyone else you know who's learning English. Give it a five-star rating and write a review. And if you feel ready to practice with real conversations, you can sign up for my US Conversations podcast.

SEGMENT 1548:
Summary: The first tip I have, one of the most important things when it comes to having a good conversation, is to ask questions. This is really important if you do something similar to what I do. So I'm gonna talk from experience here and hopefully these tips are useful for you. Listen to episode 138 of the Listening Time Podcast. Connor encourages you to keep on practicing with your English listening. Today, in this episode, I'm going to talk about the importance of talking about yourself. "I'm saying that it causes you to be curious. And being curious is often usually a good thing, right? We want to know more, explore, discover, etc."

SEGMENT 1549:
Summary: Think deeply helps to highlight this part of ourselves as humans. You can revisit old ideas or opinions or whatever and you can change them if you need to. That's part of being human. Think deeply about certain actions or behaviors. or choices, you can start to predict the consequences before they happen. We want to be able to reconsider things and correct and refine our ideas, our thoughts. You don't just do it without thinking. You reconsider the thing. You try to explore the causes and facts. and cons, you try to discover the why, and that can help you make better choices.

SEGMENT 1550:
Summary: So that's another one. 

SEGMENT 1551:
Summary: Think more deeply about things is because it makes you more creative and more interesting. It's more interesting to talk to people that are deep thinkers than to people who don't really think very deeply.

SEGMENT 1552:
Summary: How do we become deeper thinkers? What are...  What are ...  How do we  become deeper thinker? And how do we get there?

SEGMENT 1553:
Summary: I recorded an advanced episode about solitude, about being alone. Some ways we can expand our capacity for thinking. I think that episode will be released in February for all of you listening time. You don't want to just say that everything that everyone teaches you is alive. overboard means that you go to an unhealthy extreme. You're taking it too far, right?

SEGMENT 1554:
Summary: A lot of... things are lies. 

SEGMENT 1555:
Summary: A lot of things are the of the examant further and you can maybe develop a better idea upon further examination. A lot of  things are  the of  examant  further and  you can perhaps develop a better  idea.

SEGMENT 1556:
Summary: Not everything is a lie. Not everything needs to be rejected when you hear someone say it. But...  But not everything should be rejected.

SEGMENT 1557:
Summary: Many people don't have this and when they're told something, they automatically believe it. You don't just want to read a news headline and then think that you know all about that topic or that event. "Most people don't do that. They just read the headlight and then they think they know what happened or what's going on about whatever subject"

SEGMENT 1558:
Summary: "You don't want to do that. So, you don't wants to be that. You want to be  you," he says.

SEGMENT 1559:
Summary: "Deep thinkers know that everyone has an agenda in YouTube," he says. "You have to take the time to learn, read, do all that to research certain things"

SEGMENT 1560:
Summary: Me too. 

SEGMENT 1561:
Summary: "Everyone has an agenda. That's not necessarily a problem, but it's important to understand this," he says. "It's important for people to understand that they have an agenda," he adds.

SEGMENT 1562:
Summary: "When I'm in solitude, when I'm alone, I can often think deeply and think about things in a more profound way," he says. "And it got me thinking about thinking"

SEGMENT 1563:
Summary: "Everyone has an agenda and that's not a problem," she says. "I think that it's expected of you to have... an opinion about everything"

SEGMENT 1564:
Summary: Most people nowadays will force themselves to have an opinion about everything even if they really don't. When they do that, they're simply adopting another person's opinion. So that's not a characteristic of a deep thinker. Be content with not always having an opinion about something so that you don't just rush into opinions. Another tip that will help you become a deeper thinker is to read. Like me, I read mostly fiction. However, I learn a ton when I read even though it's not a nonfiction book. When you read a lot, you start to make connections between different ideas, different things, in different books. You start to compare things. And I think that it's important to think deeply in general about different things. CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1565:
Summary: "I've also seen a lot of my own faults reflected in these different characters, in these stories. By the way, the word fault refers to something... wrong. So my faults refers to the things about me that aren't good" "I'm not even trying to learn things. I'm just reading for pleasure and reading a lot helps me to think more deeply about different things," she says. "This activity really sparks these processes in your brain"

SEGMENT 1566:
Summary: So what do I mean? 

SEGMENT 1567:
Summary: "I know for many people this is really hard but it's beneficial to be able to be in silence. Well allow yourself to being in silence sometimes," she said.

SEGMENT 1568:
Summary: I like to drive in silence. I like to take walks by myself. I often listen to podcasts for language learning or listen to my audiobooks. to become a listening time family member.

SEGMENT 1569:
Summary: The weekly Newsquiz tests your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN iReport.com. This week's question and answer session is with CNN iReporters. Please submit your answers in the comments section below.

SEGMENT 1570:
Summary: Make sure to sign up for my US Conversations podcast. I'll be speaking to native speakers from different parts of the U.S. to get to know each other.

SEGMENT 1571:
Summary: The full video is available to watch at the bottom of the page. Click the link below to watch the video in its entirety. The full video will be available at the end of the month.

SEGMENT 1572:
Summary: Sometimes I like to walk by myself with nothing else. No headphones in not listening to anything. And of course, if you want to walk alone, you can.

SEGMENT 1573:
Summary: "I walk outside by myself with no music. no podcasts, no audiobooks or anything like that. And I find that my brain starts thinking. And sometimes I have some deep thoughts"

SEGMENT 1574:
Summary: "I also experience this when I walk in silence outside in nature or just on the street. I also have that same experience. So that's really cool," he says.

SEGMENT 1575:
Summary: You should reduce the amounts of social media you consume. Because when you consume social media, you're only consuming other people's ideas and opinions.

SEGMENT 1576:
Summary: "You don't really think a lot for yourself. You're just consuming things from other people and not really stimulating your own brain to think deeply about different topics"

SEGMENT 1577:
Summary: I hope this episode was interesting for you. Alright, that's it for today. I'll see you next week. Have a great day.

SEGMENT 1578:
Summary: US Conversations is a weekly podcast from John Sutter. Sutter talks to people from all over the U.S. about different topics. The transcripts for this episode are also down below. Why is it important to practice thinking deeply about different things? Well I think there are many reasons. One of them is that when you start to think more deeply about things, you understand more. And you don't just understand the what? You start to understand the why. When we say that something sparks something else, we're saying that it causes that other thing to happen. It sparks a certain curiosity in English.  for our brains.

SEGMENT 1579:
Summary: This is episode 137 of the Listening Time Podcast. I hope that these episodes have helped you improve your listening. I know that it can be hard to always stick to your plan to practice English every day.

SEGMENT 1580:
Summary: For a lot of people, it's not necessary to wake up early. If you think it might help you, then try it. I'm sure you'll see that there are many benefits.

SEGMENT 1581:
Summary: There is a very big temptation to go back to sleep when you wake up early, when your alarm goes off. So why is waking up early required discipline? Well, I think it's pretty obvious.

SEGMENT 1582:
Summary: Waking up early is an activity that will require discipline from you. I think that when you start waking up early consistently every day, you start to develop. this good habit and develop the skill of being disciplined. Waking up early is a choice, and I think that this act of choosing to wake up early every day is a good thing for our character. I think it helps us. prove in our ability to make tough decisions and to delay gratification for the future.

SEGMENT 1583:
Summary: When we say that you indulge, we're saying that you allow yourself to have some pleasure. Of course, there's all. is up time and a place for junk food. I think we all need a little bit of that pleasure, of course.

SEGMENT 1584:
Summary: I think that we all need to indulge sometimes when it comes to eating junk food. However, I'm referring to not eat junk food when you don't want to because you want to maintain your healthy eating habits at that time.

SEGMENT 1585:
Summary: In the past, whenever I had craving, it was very hard to ignore this. And I usually just ate the junk food. So over time I've become a little more disciplined in this area. "I think as I've gotten older I'm a little more conscious of the fact that my decisions now in terms of food and my health will have a big effect later on in my life or..."

SEGMENT 1586:
Summary: "Our actions have consequences and that includes... our food, right? So I've gotten a little bit better at this over time because I'm more conscious of this," she said. "It can still be hard for me to be disciplined when it comes to not eating junk food" "I see the package of cookies. go grocery shopping. So that's where I exercise my discipline. I see the packages of cookies," she says.

SEGMENT 1587:
Summary: "It looks tempting, but I say, no, I'm not going to buy it," he says. "It's a bit of a let-down," he adds.

SEGMENT 1588:
Summary: "When I'm at home, I don't have the cookies. So the desire that I have is a lot harder. to fulfill," he says. "That's kind of how I help myself in this area"

SEGMENT 1589:
Summary: I know that for some of you, this might be a very hard thing to do. You might not have like... to abandon this.

SEGMENT 1590:
Summary: When I say that you want to have discipline in your language learning, I'm talking about being able to learn a language pursue this goal and continue. That's a long definition, but I wanted to give you a sense of what I'mtalking about when I say discipline.

SEGMENT 1591:
Summary: Saving money is the ultimate for the ultimate example of delaying gratification. You receive money, you can do anything with that money. But instead of going out and getting things you want and feeling satisfied because you can buy something, put it away somewhere. Once you get the hang of it, saving money can be fun because you feel good about getting closer to your goal. By the way, the word afford is used to say that you have enough money for it.

SEGMENT 1592:
Summary: If you've never tried this before, it's going to require discipline. The word leisure just refers to your free time that you can use for things that you want to do.

SEGMENT 1593:
Summary: Before we have fun, we should try to finish our work, right? So, you don't want to not finish what you need to do and then go have fun because the whole time you'll be thinking about that work that you didn't do. And this requires discipline too because it's easy to put off work and to procrastinate.

SEGMENT 1594:
Summary: It's very... easy to put off things that we don't want to do and just do something else right now. So that's something that we need discipline in order to not do. And then after that, we can enjoy ourselves. I really think that when you don't procrastinate, when you do what you need to do now, and then you relax or have fun, you have a lot more fun and you can relax a lot better. I think that it will enhance your leisure time if you do it like this.

SEGMENT 1595:
Summary: A lot of people want to learn a language. but they always put it off and say that they'll do it in the future. Many people start learning a language and then they stop. Or they start with a good language learning plan and schedule. And then they start to get off track and do other things. "I stopped taking seriously and then now... I'm more serious.  and then I stopped taking serious and then  now I am more serious," he says.

SEGMENT 1596:
Summary: "It just takes a small amount of discipline to just say... every day I need to do at least 20 minutes of listening or 30 minutes of reading or whatever it is that you plan on doing" "That's part of my schedule. I go to bed at night, I'm going to listen to this English podcast 25 minutes," he says.

SEGMENT 1597:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 1598:
Summary: It's easy to abandon that little discipline. And it's very easy to get off track. Even this small amount of discipline is very important when it comes to language learning. So this should be a good and helpful topic for everyone.

SEGMENT 1599:
Summary: Language learning is a hard process, it takes a long time, but with discipline you can do it. One of the biggest keys to being a successful language learner is having that amount of discipline.

SEGMENT 1600:
Summary: And... 

SEGMENT 1601:
Summary: "Don't quit or become really irregular in your practice, etc. to not quit or not quit" "Don't be afraid to try new things or try to do things in a new way, even if it's not right, if you don't feel like you can do it"

SEGMENT 1602:
Summary: Okay, that's all for today. 

SEGMENT 1603:
Summary: I hope you enjoyed this episode. I hope you're motivated to be disciplined in your life and to do things that require discipline and to train yourself in this regard.

SEGMENT 1604:
Summary: Make sure to sign up for my membership so you can get my specialized listening training. Of course, if you need my help to understand native speakers.

SEGMENT 1605:
Summary: If you feel like you're ready to practice with real conversations, then make sure to sign up for my US Conversations podcast. The link is down below in the episode description. That's patreon.com slash US conversations.

SEGMENT 1606:
Summary: The sound patterns that you hear when native speakers speak really fast and reduce their speech are difficult to understand. understand those difficult sound patterns.  The sound patterns are similar to those heard when a native speaker is talking fast.

SEGMENT 1607:
Summary: Remember to sign up for my US Conversations podcast. If you feel ready to start practice. to sing with real conversations between native speakers. So that should be your ultimate goal to be able to understand multiple people speaking with each other.

SEGMENT 1608:
Summary: This is the 148th episode of the Listening Time Podcast. Connor talks about the importance of waking up early. He also talks about some of the things in life that require discipline. Today I want to talk about a topic that I've already talked about, but a long time ago, in one of the first episodes. And I also talked. a little bit about it in a bonus episode, if I'm not mistaken, and that is the topic of dogs.

SEGMENT 1609:
Summary: This dog that is still alive, he was rescued from an area where it's very common for dogs to breed with coyotes. The word breed when used as a verb like this refers to animals having babies. In that area, many coyotes and dogs. breed and so there are these hybrid dogs that are part dog and part coyote. Australian shepherd was 'one of the smartest dogs I've ever eaten' Small white mutt was 'not a very beautiful mutt' Coyote 'used his intelligence to get into trouble' "I remember my dad just carrying her on his shoulder. her almost like a scarf. He would throw her over his shoulder and walk around the city with her," she said.

SEGMENT 1610:
Summary: They're not really doing a lot. 

SEGMENT 1611:
Summary: "She would just chill on his shoulder as you would walk around and go different places. Just uh... sitting there or whatever," he said. "I was doing this stand-up paddle sport where you stand on that paddle board"

SEGMENT 1612:
Summary: A dog walks behind my window and so that's the topic that came to mind. So we're going to talk about it today. And I know a lot of you are dog lovers.

SEGMENT 1613:
Summary: "I did that with this dog with me. So she was standing on this board with me in the bay on the water," he says. "That was probably my best memory of her doing that stand-up paddle with her"

SEGMENT 1614:
Summary: "I actually appreciate cats a lot more now than I used to. And I'm allergic to cats. I can't spend time in an area where there's a cat" "I always thought that dogs were better" No matter which apartment I lived in, there would always be barking dogs. When you want to record and you need silence, but the dog next door won't be quiet.

SEGMENT 1615:
Summary: You can imagine how 

SEGMENT 1616:
Summary: "I got frustrated when trying to record podcast episodes and I had to wait for the dog to stop barking," he says. "Sometimes I would wake up really early to record before there was any normies from the dog or anyone else"

SEGMENT 1617:
Summary: "I would've... always get frustrated when that happened because my son was just a baby and needed to sleep," she said. "I definitely didn't like that"

SEGMENT 1618:
Summary: "I'm someone that appreciates let's fly it when I'm trying to work. reveal some important information to them at the very beginning," he said.

SEGMENT 1619:
Summary: "There was dog poop everywhere all over the city on the sidewalk. It was annoying to always have to try to avoid stepping on it," she says. "Some vicious dog would hook it head out of the fence of some house and start barking at us and scare us"

SEGMENT 1620:
Summary: When my son can walk and he's there on the ground when other dogs come up to us, get a little bit nervous and I kind of... want to protect my son and make sure that he doesn't get bit by a dog. So as you can see there are some different reasons why I stopped liking dogs that much when I was living Mexico. E. e one responsible for this.    is not responsible for the death of a young girl in a car crash in the U.S.

SEGMENT 1621:
Summary: "I don't really like dogs that much nowadays. And I know many of you love dogs. But still, because of this reality, I don't like dogs all the time," he said.

SEGMENT 1622:
Summary: So don't get mad at me, okay? 

SEGMENT 1623:
Summary: "I prefer when my neighbors have cats rather than dogs," she says. "This is just my personal preference. And I know that dogs are fun and friendly, but they're just not for me"

SEGMENT 1624:
Summary: "I don't want you all to hate me now that you've realized that I'm not a big dog lover," he says. "I do want to say that I like certain things about dogs. For example, I like that dogs are very loyal. I really admire that trait"

SEGMENT 1625:
Summary: Dogs will follow their owners everywhere and they won't abandoned them hopefully and they will protect their owners. So dogs will just follow their owner everywhere.

SEGMENT 1626:
Summary: That's really cool. 

SEGMENT 1627:
Summary: "Dogs tend to be happy. They're like happy animals which is nice because when your dog is in a good mood, it puts you in aGood mood, right?" she said.

SEGMENT 1628:
Summary: "I don't really like dogs that much, but I'll explain myself" "Dogs are fun animals compared to some other pets, let's say" "I even think it's good to raise them with kids" "I'm not a big dog person anymore. It was nice growing up with dogs, but I... would prefer not to have one especially because I don't like having the responsibility of taking care of these animals"

SEGMENT 1629:
Summary: "I know that a lot of you probably like me less now because you know... that I don't like dogs that much," he says. "So dogs are fine, dogs are cool animals, but I prefer not to have dogs barking around me and all that kind of stuff"

SEGMENT 1630:
Summary: If you feel ready to practice with my advanced podcast episodes, make sure to sign up to become a listening time family member. That's patreon.com slash listening time. And if you want my US Conversations podcast in which I talk to other native speakers from around the country, the link is in the description.

SEGMENT 1631:
Summary: This week, we talk about dogs. Are your ears ready? You know what time it is. It's listening time. As always, please share this episode, give it a five star rating and writer review.

SEGMENT 1632:
Summary: CNN.com's John Sutter talks about his history with dogs. Sutter's family had a total of seven different dogs when he was growing up. One of them, he's not mine, but he used to live with us.

SEGMENT 1633:
Summary: Connor: Thank you all for helping me reach episode 100. I hope that all of these episodes have been helpful for you. And of course, since this is a special episode, I'm going to do a Q&A.

SEGMENT 1634:
Summary: "This will be for Spanish speakers, of course. so that you can read it in English and in Spanish" "I'll announce that pretty soon, because I'm getting pretty close to finishing with this book. So I'm excited about that"

SEGMENT 1635:
Summary: "You just can't say things fast or you have to think a lot, you don't know what to say," she says. "This is something that everyone feels, almost everyone feels when they learn how to do it"

SEGMENT 1636:
Summary: If you don't have a very high level of listening, that's where you want to focus on. You want to make sure that you can understand like almost everything that you hear. If you're not at that point yet, then a... of course you won't be able to speak as fast as native speakers.

SEGMENT 1637:
Summary: This is like your collection of weapons and tools. You won't have as much in there to draw from to actually say whole phrases and words past in the moment. We want to 

SEGMENT 1638:
Summary: The first step is to do tons and tons of listening and to make sure your understanding things very well. You say whole phrases, you say things correctly and naturally when you know that they're correct.

SEGMENT 1639:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 1640:
Summary: Make sure that that's your main focus. Not just understanding the main point of the sentence, but actually understand every single word, every single sound in these sentences.

SEGMENT 1641:
Summary: Make sure that you actually do understand a lot, like almost everything. And then when you do your conversation practice, don't stress about being correct 100% of the time. Notice the holes in what you're saying.

SEGMENT 1642:
Summary: Right? That's not good. 

SEGMENT 1643:
Summary: You want to make sure that you can already say most of what you want to say in normal conversations just from repeating things you've already heard many times.

SEGMENT 1644:
Summary: The first step is to focus more and more on listening. And then you fill in the gaps afterwards when you do your conversation practice. The next question is how to speak faster. using vocabulary that you already have. Fluency has to do with saying things at normal speed and not thinking about them beforehand. Many people try to learn vocabulary actively and then they try to incorporate all of those words into their speech. But I don't think that that's necessarily the best method.

SEGMENT 1645:
Summary: You want to learn vocabulary through input, through the things that you're listening to and reading and you need to hear them. in many different contexts, and then eventually they will become natural for you. You'll be able to say them fast.

SEGMENT 1646:
Summary: "I feel great. This is what I love doing in terms of work. I love working on my own. I don't like relying on other people," she says.

SEGMENT 1647:
Summary: I like to do it on my own, so I really like that. I haven't had a job as an employee in a long time, and the last time that I left a job, so that was six and a half years ago. I'm able to help many more people now than I helped when I was just an employee before.

SEGMENT 1648:
Summary: When is it hard for me as a native speaker to understand other native speakers like in different forms of entertainment, like music, TV, etc. The hardest dialect. me to understand with the Scottish English. That's definitely the one that I have the most trouble understanding.

SEGMENT 1649:
Summary: I needed the captions at the bottom of the screen to understand. Of course, I understood most of what they were saying, but there were big gaps. I remember watching a documentary or something like that in the past that was made by Scottish people.

SEGMENT 1650:
Summary: So that can happen. 

SEGMENT 1651:
Summary: I watch movies and TV shows from really hard dialects like that, but that's very rare. I don't think that there are other types of dialects that are really hard for me. I think the signs Scottish evil.

SEGMENT 1652:
Summary: I don't think so. 

SEGMENT 1653:
Summary: As an English learner, it will be hard for you at times to understand different songs in English. A lot of singers sing very clearly and I know exactly what they're saying, but sometimes they don't. So I hope that answered your question. The next one.

SEGMENT 1654:
Summary: "I don't do this because I don't think that it's that important compared to listening practice" "I'm not focused on absolute beginners, I'm focused on people that are... already have some knowledge of English"

SEGMENT 1655:
Summary: "For me, grammar is not that important. That's why I focus on listening practice because this is what I do when I learn other languages" "You have to start to expect the right sounds"

SEGMENT 1656:
Summary: I help you understand these different sounds, the different ways that native speakers shorten their speech. I help you identify what all of these things sound like and help you little by little. identify and expect the correct sounds.

SEGMENT 1657:
Summary: It's not about studying certain prepositions. It's about focusing on what native speakers actually sound like when they speak. Once you start to expect the right sounds things will get easier for you.

SEGMENT 1658:
Summary: You should probably have reached a pretty good level in your second language before you start your third language. The next question is about learning a third language when it's good to start with that. just to try them out and see if you like them.

SEGMENT 1659:
Summary: You don't have to do this. 

SEGMENT 1660:
Summary: There are some people that learn two languages at the same time from scratch. There are also some people who can speak two different languages at once.

SEGMENT 1661:
Summary: If you just want to help me out and support this podcast, then make sure to join my membership. The link is in the episode description below the episode at patreon.com.

SEGMENT 1662:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter questions in a weekly Newsquiz. Submit your questions at CNN.com/Heroes. This week, Jarrett Bellini tackles the question "What do you do when you're in trouble?"

SEGMENT 1663:
Summary: If you are still a beginner in your second language, and then you start your third language, you might feel like you have to start. from a very low level when you turn to it. You just want to reach a level where you feel a little more comfortable in that language.

SEGMENT 1664:
Summary: If you wanna start two, three languages at the same time, for example, from scratch, you can do that as long as you have enough time and dedication for each language. Most people don't have this, they have to focus most of their time just on one language. So that's why I'm saying that it's probably better to reach an intermediate level in your second language and then start with the third one after that.

SEGMENT 1665:
Summary: The next question is about my hope for the future of education. So I'll address English education here, not education in general. I hope that in the future in English classes around the world, the focus will be on input, not output. I haven't done a lot of speaking actually. I've actually focused almost all of my effort on listening. I still want to reach a higher level of listening before I start speaking more. I'm going to go back to French in about a month.

SEGMENT 1666:
Summary: How do I learn a language from scratch? 

SEGMENT 1667:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1668:
Summary: I first just get a feel for the language just by looking through. a grammar book, maybe focusing a little bit on grammar, the different structures. And then eventually when I feel like I can actually produce speech naturally, then I'll focus on conversation as well.

SEGMENT 1669:
Summary: So in a nutshell. as I can. 

SEGMENT 1670:
Summary: "I have the habit of mixing a lot of Spanish into my language," he says. "I try to speak to him in English most of the time"

SEGMENT 1671:
Summary: shell corner in summary. 

SEGMENT 1672:
Summary: "What I do is I focus a ton of my time on listening of much more than 90% like 98 99% on listening and then eventually I start speaking," he says.

SEGMENT 1673:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1674:
Summary: I often speak to my wife and my son in Spanish but I try not to do this too much because I want him to hear English throughout the day. The next question is how to sound more British if someone wants to travel there. I would focus mostly on the vocabulary, not on pronunciation. "The main thing is to use the vocabulary that they use. You don't want to have any miscommunications," she says. "I would use those online lists just to practice with that before going there"

SEGMENT 1675:
Summary: "I would focus on the vocabulary, not necessarily the other elements, like the pronunciation. know these words. So I wouldFocus on the Vocabulary, not the Other Elements," she said.

SEGMENT 1676:
Summary: The next question is, do I have any books that I offer for English learners?  The answer is yes, I do. Okay?

SEGMENT 1677:
Summary: Connor: We're almost at episode 100. I'm actually working on a book right now, which is a collection of three short stories that are translated into Spanish. Not yet, but very soon actually. Don't be overly afraid of failure. We don't want to be terrified that we're not going to succeed. If we're scared to fail. will probably just not do whatever it is that we planned on doing. "We should try to learn from the times we don't succeed and then do things better the next time" "We never want to let failure completely destroy us. and make us feel like we're bad people or whatever"

SEGMENT 1678:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 1679:
Summary: Research shows that people can have trouble learning lessons from their own failure. Sometimes they don't really focus on their failures and just want to forget about them.

SEGMENT 1680:
Summary: Researchers had a group of people take a test and mistest their question. They had a 50% chance of getting each question right. The people took this test and then after that they were shown their right and their wrong answers. Most people remembered their correct answers from the first test. So they were able to remember those and answer them correctly again on the second test. Many of the people didn't remember as many of their incorrect answers. so they answered those same up to become a listening time family member or VIP. Some people have trouble learning from failure. And that's a shame, I think, because we can learn a lot from the failure and we can do things differently in the future to have more success.

SEGMENT 1681:
Summary: The first failure I want to talk about is film school. I realized that I didn't like it. any of the technical aspects of filmmaking. I didn’t really like anything about it and that was really disappointing because I had signed up for a one-year course. I actually stopped halfway through and dropped out of film school. In English, when we use the phrasal verb drop out, what we're saying is that you don't finish it. You actually quit in a way. And so I...

SEGMENT 1682:
Summary: "I learned that I shouldn't commit to things that I'm not very sure about. So it's okay to commit toThings that you're not 100% sure about, maybe you're 95, 99% whatever"

SEGMENT 1683:
Summary: "For me, I hadn't really done my research on the film industry and on what would be required of me to work in this industry," she said.

SEGMENT 1684:
Summary: "I was very naive when I entered into this program. I thought it would be easy, just fun and there," she says. "I would be really good and I would be a natural industry"

SEGMENT 1685:
Summary: "I shouldn't have committed to going to this program and trying to become a filmmaker because I didn't really know anything about this," he says. "I committed to this without knowing much. And so that was not the case"

SEGMENT 1686:
Summary: "I shouldn't continue with something if I know for sure that it's wrong" "I should be much more sure before committing" "If you're interested in any of that, make sure to click on the link in the episode description"

SEGMENT 1687:
Summary: In today's episode, we're going to talk about failure. Nobody's perfect and it's important to know how to deal with failure or how to think.

SEGMENT 1688:
Summary: You don't have to force yourself to finish the whole book if it's like torture for you. It's okay if you stop something early if you know for sure that it's the wrong thing. You shouldn't see all like you. always have to finish everything.

SEGMENT 1689:
Summary: In English when we say that you're up. border of the way through something or your halfway through it. This means that you are a quarter of theway done, half way done. And so that's something that I learned from film school. And another failure that I had is with my website. So I used to have a website that's not available now, but I made a big mistake with this website because it wasn't "It just wasn't a very... intuitive model and it wasn't very attractive" "I wasn't having a lot of success with it and it was just the wrong thing. This was not the way I needed to go about my business"

SEGMENT 1690:
Summary: "People like that a lot better. better and I'm having a lot more success with that. And that's a much better model. better," he said.

SEGMENT 1691:
Summary: "My old website does not exist anymore. And so of course my old website  does not  exist anymore," he says. "I'm very proud of what I've done. I'm so proud of it."

SEGMENT 1692:
Summary: That was a failure. 

SEGMENT 1693:
Summary: "I need to think more about my students, my customers, so to say, and what they want, what they need. Not what I think is an interesting thing to offer," she says.

SEGMENT 1694:
Summary: "I think people want what they're actually looking for," he says. "I don't think people are looking for what they think they're looking for"

SEGMENT 1695:
Summary: "There will always be failures along the way," he says. "You just need to accept that and expect it and move past those failures overcome those failures"

SEGMENT 1696:
Summary: You might have some failures with your website or whatever and that's normal. You should enter in with that mindset knowing that you're not going to get everything right the first time.

SEGMENT 1697:
Summary: "People shouldn't expect to get it right about this concept of failure, etc. So that's important for people that want to start something on their own," he says.

SEGMENT 1698:
Summary: The daily transcript is a written version of each day's podcast. Use this transcript to help readers with reading comprehension and vocabulary. Use the weekly Newsquiz to test your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN.com.

SEGMENT 1699:
Summary: There's a lot of trial and error. That just means that you're going to make mistakes and then learn from those mistakes. And one other failure I had was that I bought a car last year that had so many problems. "I don't know anything about cars, so I shouldn't make a big decision without consulting experts first or at least be. but know a lot more than I do," he said. " discounts can still be a waste of money. You can think that you're getting a discount, but at the end of the day, it's such poor quality" Sometimes it's better to take your losses and move on. It wouldn't have been good for me to try to wait until I could get a better price for this car or fix it up so that I could sell it for even more money. I just needed to get rid of this car and get some money back. Please share this podcast with anyone else you know who's learning English and help them and help the podcast grow. And don't forget to give it a five star rating and write a positive review.

SEGMENT 1700:
Summary: That really helps me out as well. 

SEGMENT 1701:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1702:
Summary: Sometimes we can get the impression that we fail much more than other people. And that's completely normal. We use these types of apps where only seeing the positives in other people's lives. And this can make us feel like we have much more negatives or depressing lives. Don't be fooled by his social media because other people fail just like you. Remember that the word fool means to deceive someone. So if I say don't be deceived, I'm saying don'tbe deceived.

SEGMENT 1703:
Summary: This is the 139th episode of The Listening Time Podcast. Connor is a language learner and has just started learning Italian. He talks about how to learn a new language without having a teacher. "I'm not going to have any teachers or any classes. these 100 days and I'm starting from zero," she says. "My goal is to reach a level where I can comfortably start to have conversations with native Italian speakers"

SEGMENT 1704:
Summary: "I want to get to the level where I can start to just use the language itself to learn the language. Just use content and speed," he says.

SEGMENT 1705:
Summary: Does that make sense? 

SEGMENT 1706:
Summary: "My goal isn't to do this just for myself. I'm trying to do it for other people. I want to be able to provide this helpful learning resource to other people who have no idea how to start learning a language," he says.

SEGMENT 1707:
Summary: Maybe you have the desire to... 

SEGMENT 1708:
Summary: I'm making this for native English speakers who have never learned another language before. that you Spanish or French or Italian like me or German or whatever. And so this might be something useful for you if you're starting from scratch learning another language.

SEGMENT 1709:
Summary: So I hope this will be... 

SEGMENT 1710:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1711:
Summary: "I'm not speaking Italian with anyone during these 100 days. So I'm not having conversations in Italian," she says. "I'm just consuming Italian"

SEGMENT 1712:
Summary: "I might say some things to myself out loud, of course, but I'm not having a conversation with anyone during these 100 days," he says. "I'm someone who emphasizes input more than output in the early stages of learning"

SEGMENT 1713:
Summary: "I think that it's more effective to focus on your input on things you're... listening and reading to get the language inside your head," he says. "Then when you feel comfortable, when you have a basic foundation in that language, then you can start tofocus on output" "I'm focusing mostly on input here and there's a little bit of output in this first 100 days, this challenge that I'm doing, but it's not having conversations forcing myself to speak," he says. "I'm also not doing any passive listening during these 100 days"

SEGMENT 1714:
Summary: "You should do it. You should multitask. And if you have the opportunity to put your headphones in and listen to a pod. past in your target language while you're washing the dishes or while you's doing something else, I think that's great," he says.

SEGMENT 1715:
Summary: "I'm going to document my... whole process. I'm already doing this. So every single resource that I use, how I use each resource, the way that I do it, how much time I spend with each activity, each resource every day, I'm documenting everything," he says. "I'll have this video that I can send to people who ask me on learning a language from scratch what should I do," he said. "This will be an easy way to show. them exactly what I think and what I did to learn Italian in 100 days"

SEGMENT 1716:
Summary: I want to help other people and I also want to see for myself. So that's my reason for doing this. and I'm sure it will be an interesting episode. And before we get started, remember that you can get my advanced episodes in which I speak fast at normal speed.

SEGMENT 1717:
Summary: I'm very curious. 

SEGMENT 1718:
Summary: This challenge is not going to be the equivalent of an English speaker learning their first foreign language. By the way, when we say any given something, we just mean any of that thing, whichever one. So this challenge, me learning Italian is notgoing to be equivalent.

SEGMENT 1719:
Summary: "I don't want you to think that. Why am I saying that?" he asks. "I'm not saying that. I don't think that."

SEGMENT 1720:
Summary: Well... 

SEGMENT 1721:
Summary: I was better in the past, but I haven't spoken in a really long time. I've learned other romance languages before. The romance languages are the ones that come from Latin.

SEGMENT 1722:
Summary: "I'm very familiar with Italians, sister languages. And I know a lot of French and these are all... all languages that are very similar to Italian"

SEGMENT 1723:
Summary: "I'm probably going to have better results after these 100 days than someone else will if they just...  if they just focus on me," he says.

SEGMENT 1724:
Summary: Italian will be a very easy language for me compared to other languages. So I don't want to be unfair. learn a language and it's the first time they've learned a language or if they're learning a language that has no relation to their language.

SEGMENT 1725:
Summary: "I've learned these other languages that are really similar to Italian and that's a huge advantage. If someone sees my video and thinks that they're going to have the same results as me, that's probably not the case"

SEGMENT 1726:
Summary: I think that anyone can apply the same technique and start to gain a good foundation in their target language. I think that with 100 days, two hours a day, using the resources that I'm using or similar ones, they can still make a lot of... of progress and get a really good start, let's say.

SEGMENT 1727:
Summary: I've never documented my process learning a language from scratch. All of my language learning has been completely disorganized. I have no idea how many hours I've spent learning these different languages.

SEGMENT 1728:
Summary: "This is the first time that I've been learning these languages," she says. "It's been a lot of fun. I've learned a lot"

SEGMENT 1729:
Summary: I want to develop and refine my own plan for when I learn other languages from zero, from scratch in the future. The word refine means to little by little perfect something. doing something like this.

SEGMENT 1730:
Summary: The Daily Discussion is CNN Tech's weekly, offbeat look at things going on in the news. This week, Jarrett ponders some of the words and phrases we use in our daily news stories.

SEGMENT 1731:
Summary: The daily transcript is a written version of each day's episode. Use this transcript to help students with reading comprehension and vocabulary. Use the weekly Newsquiz to test your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN.com.

SEGMENT 1732:
Summary: "I want to do this so that in the future when I learn other languages from scratch, I can follow the same process or improve this process," he says.

SEGMENT 1733:
Summary: "I don't think this is the perfect process. I think that I'm going to learn what works better, what doesn't work, and I'll probably include that in my video at the end," he says.

SEGMENT 1734:
Summary: There's... 

SEGMENT 1735:
Summary: I might do another 100 days. After it, and keep on learning Italian for 200 days and 400 hours, still 2 hours a day. I'll use Italian content for Italian speakers and I will focus on consuming as much as possible. And I'll be using Italian to have conversations in Italian.

SEGMENT 1736:
Summary: I'm not sure yet. I might just stop after the first 100 days. But I'm kind of curious to see what I can achieve in 200 days. That would be the second 100 days if I choose to do it. So I might do that.

SEGMENT 1737:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1738:
Summary: "I've never been interested in learning Italian. It's a great language, but it never interested me personally because I didn't... really have reason to learn it," he says. "Now that I have started with Italian, I actually like it. I'm liking it a lot more than I thought I would" "I already speak Spanish. but I already speak English. I don't know why I'm not fluent in Spanish," she says. "I'm not a bad person. I just don't like to be told what to do"

SEGMENT 1739:
Summary: So I can't do it, unfortunately. 

SEGMENT 1740:
Summary: I didn't know any Italian before I started this challenge. I thought that Italian would be a good choice. because it would be kind of similar me learning Italian at another English speaker learning Spanish. However, I have the big advantage that I already so there's a difference there. If you like this podcast, please share it with anyone else you know who's learning English. And please give it a five-star rating on Spotify or Apple Podcasts and writer review.

SEGMENT 1741:
Summary: So... 

SEGMENT 1742:
Summary: "I like it a lot more than I thought I would. in my opinion, it's one of the most beautiful languages for sure," she said.

SEGMENT 1743:
Summary: I'm doing things a little bit differently than I would do them if I weren't documenting this and sending it to other people to recommend to them. If I were just doing this by myself and not for other people, I would of course do passive listening with Italian and I wouldn't do every single thing that I'm doing right now. But I think that they will be good for others who feel like they need more.

SEGMENT 1744:
Summary: "I'm trying to create a very clean program for other people," he says. "Because of that, I'm doing things a little differently from what I would normally do"

SEGMENT 1745:
Summary: I hope this episode was interesting for you. When I'm done with this challenge in the future, I'll do another episode to talk about it as well. So stay tuned for that.

SEGMENT 1746:
Summary: The weekly Newsquiz tests your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN.com. This week's question asked: What is the best way to tell a story? The answer is in the description below this episode.

SEGMENT 1747:
Summary: If you want to practice with real conversations, to practice listening to two native speakers talking to each other, then sign up for my US Conversations podcast.

SEGMENT 1748:
Summary: Why am I learning Italian? Here's why. And if you like this podcast, please share it. The link is also in the description below this episode.

SEGMENT 1749:
Summary: "I am going to study Italian for 100 days and I'm studying for two hours a day exactly. Well this is part of a challenge that I'm doing," he said.

SEGMENT 1750:
Summary: There might be a few examples. where I study an hour and a half one day, but then I make up for it the next day. Nice study and extra half hour, let's say.

SEGMENT 1751:
Summary: Connor is starting from scratch when it comes to learning a new language. He will study Italian for 200 hours, 100 days, 200 hours total, and he'll do it in 100 days. This is episode 141 of the Listening Time Podcast. I hope everyone is doing excellent and I hope that you're ready to practice your English listening with another episode.

SEGMENT 1752:
Summary: The Super Bowl takes place on Sunday, February 4. The New England Patriots take on the Denver Broncos in Super Bowl XLIX. The game will be broadcast live on CBS.

SEGMENT 1753:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1754:
Summary: This is the final game of the NFL, the National Football League. This is the biggest sporting event in the US. The Super Bowl is the most watched sporting event of all time.

SEGMENT 1755:
Summary: "I think this event will take place maybe two days or so before this," he said. "It will be a little bit of a celebration for us all," he added.

SEGMENT 1756:
Summary: A history buff is someone who consumes a lot of educational material about history. They get excited about the topic. I'm not a sports history buff, so I can't tell you for sure, but I would say so.

SEGMENT 1757:
Summary: "I'm not a sports history buff. So some of my opinions might not be 100% accurate. But I think...  I think that's a history buff"

SEGMENT 1758:
Summary: The Super Bowl is so popular that many, many non-football fans also watch it. Even people that don't follow football at all, people that haven't watched a single game all season, they might still watch the Super Bowl. Merican teams. merican teams have been involved in the World Cup since the 1970s. The team from Argentina won the tournament for the first time in 1986.

SEGMENT 1759:
Summary: The New York Yankees face the Boston Red Sox in the World Series. The New England Patriots take on the Kansas City Chiefs in the Super Bowl.

SEGMENT 1760:
Summary: In most countries around the world, soccer is the biggest sport. One of the most exciting things about soccer throughout the year is that there are international competitions. There are two American teams not teams from different countries.

SEGMENT 1761:
Summary: Play. right? 

SEGMENT 1762:
Summary: Americans watch American sports for the most part. If you watch international sports as an American, you're in the minority. The Super Bowl is the most popular sporting event in the US.

SEGMENT 1763:
Summary: Really? 

SEGMENT 1764:
Summary: This is an element of American culture and I'm sure it will be educational for you too. What is this? episode is released. And so this will be a topic that a lot of people are talking about.

SEGMENT 1765:
Summary: The final game of the NFL season takes place on Sunday. There are 32 different teams in the NFL, according to the league's website. The game will be played in New Jersey.

SEGMENT 1766:
Summary: There are 32 teams in total and these teams are divided into two conferences. Each of these conferences has four divisions based on the geography of the US. The playoffs refer to the phase after the regular season that only certain teams qualify for. At the end of every season, there's one team that is considered the champion. And that's the case for the Super Bowl. Whoever wins is the champion for that year.

SEGMENT 1767:
Summary: And there are... 

SEGMENT 1768:
Summary: Football and soccer in America are very different from those in other countries. Some of the biggest differences can be seen when you compare them to soccer in most countries. This will help you understand the excitement of the Super Bowl.

SEGMENT 1769:
Summary: In American sports, there's usually a different team at the top, a different champion every year. It doesn't always happen like that, of course. But most years, the champion is a different. champion from the previous years champion.

SEGMENT 1770:
Summary: In American sports, of course we have the money factor, different owners of different teams have different amounts of money to spend. And of course that's a factor, but it's not as... big of a factor as it is in soccer in other countries. In most countries, there are certain soccer clubs that have tons of money.

SEGMENT 1771:
Summary: Learn about Super Bowl. Even if you're not a big sports fan, learn about the game. Learn about the Super Bowl on CNN.com/sport and follow us on Twitter @CNNSport.

SEGMENT 1772:
Summary: If you want my advanced episodes where I speak fast then make sure to become a listening time fan. Remember and you'll get two new advanced episodes every month. And the link to that is below in the episode description that's patreon.com slash listening time.

SEGMENT 1773:
Summary: In the US, it doesn't quite work like this in most of our sports. There are a lot of other teams with little money that compete for the championship every year. Usually it's just one of the rich clubs that wins.

SEGMENT 1774:
Summary: The NFL draft is this event in which the different teams they draft or they choose different college football players. The big college football stars eventually go to the NFL and the way that they do that is through this draft. There are always cycles where a team is good or a season or a couple seasons and then they're bad. And that happens a lot more in football, that it does in soccer in other countries. So because of all of that, the Super Bowl is often extra exciting in this context. If a team does win multiple Super Bowls year after year, you know that that team is really special because that doesn't normally happen. when their team makes it to the Super Bowl even though they've never won it before. or they were really bad the last few years.

SEGMENT 1775:
Summary: A dynasty is a team that wins multiple championships in a short period of time. The New England Patriots have won multiple Super Bowls in recent years.

SEGMENT 1776:
Summary: Make sure to sign up for my US Conversations podcast and you'll get new long conversation every month with the transcript and with the definitions of keywords and phrases.

SEGMENT 1777:
Summary: So the link to that is also. 

SEGMENT 1778:
Summary: Dynasis are very special in the US because they don't happen often. It's not like in different soccer leagues around the world where the same team can win four or five times in a row and it's just normal. That's very rare and so it's special when that happens.

SEGMENT 1779:
Summary: It starts with the National Anthem, where some... one sing our national song, right, the star-spangled banner, and usually it's some celebrity or famous singer. Right? There are a lot of amazing things.

SEGMENT 1780:
Summary: I don't know. 

SEGMENT 1781:
Summary: The national anthem is sung at all of our sporting events. It's not just during international games against other countries. This is an important element of the sporting event. And then there's the big halftime show. Some people get excited for the commercials. more than the football game. The companies that advertise during the Super Bowl purposely put their best effort and the most amount of money on these particular commercials and people like them.

SEGMENT 1782:
Summary: With Super Bowl, it's a social event. The sport is sometimes important. So people might not even care about who wins. They just go for the socializing and the food. maybe the commercials.

SEGMENT 1783:
Summary: That's patreon.com slash US conversations. That's the patreon site slash US conversation. It's the place to start when you want to talk about anything.

SEGMENT 1784:
Summary: English speakers can be a mix of people. Some people are really into the game when they go to these parties. Others are standing, talking in the kitchen or whatever.

SEGMENT 1785:
Summary: Superble parties are very common and a lot of people. look forward to them. So superble parties have become very popular in recent years.

SEGMENT 1786:
Summary: I think that's pretty much all I wanted to say about the Super Bowl. Hopefully you learned a little bit about this tradition here in the US.

SEGMENT 1787:
Summary: I don't know. 

SEGMENT 1788:
Summary: "I'm not gonna watch it because I'm not interested in football, but a lot of other Americans are interested in this," he says.

SEGMENT 1789:
Summary: This episode is a practice episode for the US conversations podcast. It's great practice for you to start listening to and understanding two people talking to each other. Sign up to become a listening time family member to receive my advanced podcast episodes.

SEGMENT 1790:
Summary: Please give this podcast a five star rating on Spotify or Apple Podcasts if you can. And share it with anyone else you know who might find it useful.

SEGMENT 1791:
Summary: The Super Bowl this year in 2024 will take place on February 11th. This episode will be released on the 13th if I'm not mistaken. So the Super Bowl probably just happened if you're listening to this episode the week that I did.

SEGMENT 1792:
Summary: comes out. 

SEGMENT 1793:
Summary: The Super Bowl is by far the biggest national sporting event in the US. American football, of course, is the most popular sport in the U.S.

SEGMENT 1794:
Summary: Welcome to the Listening Time Podcast. I'm glad that we finally reached episode 100 and now we're moving on from that. Thank you all again for listening and a special thank you of my members. In English the word downside refers to some disadvantage that you have. However, when it comes to swimming the good thing is that you don't have that same downside, right?

SEGMENT 1795:
Summary: Swimming is good for your joints and it's also good cardio. It also works your muscles as well. Your core is the whole middle part of your body. It works your back a lot, lower back, upper back.

SEGMENT 1796:
Summary: So... 

SEGMENT 1797:
Summary: All of this is like your core you might say. your abs and your obliques which are on your sides and then lower back. So it's good for all of that and one other thing that it is good for is your breathing.

SEGMENT 1798:
Summary: Swimming is very fun. You have to learn. and had a greed well and also had a hold your breath underwater. This is something that I've never been very good at, but a lot of swimmers can hold the breath for a long time and not worry about running out of breath. Swimming is great for kids to learn how to swim at a young age. It will help prevent accidents later on. Even as adults swimming is really fun as well. It's something that's relaxing and entertaining.

SEGMENT 1799:
Summary: Parents want to make sure their kids aren't going to drown in any situation. In English, the word drown refers to when you can't swim or you're in rough water.

SEGMENT 1800:
Summary: If you want my advanced podcast episodes then make sure to become a listening time family member or VIP and you'll receive two new advanced episodes every month. listening time member and you will get my listening practice seminars where I help you understand the different sound patterns in English.

SEGMENT 1801:
Summary: We sometimes call these floaties and some people call them water wounds. It's good to have kids learn to swim without using these. So that's a goal that many parents have. And this issue...

SEGMENT 1802:
Summary: If you're an adult and you've never learned how to swim it can also be good for you to learn as well just in case you're in the water. You don't want to drown either so it's very good to learn how to Swim.

SEGMENT 1803:
Summary: A lot of kids in the US take swimming lessons and I was no exception. In English, when you say you're no exception, this just means that you're the same. So I'm no exception to swimming lessons.

SEGMENT 1804:
Summary: "I also did swimming lessons when I was a kid," he says. "I'm not a swimmer, but I did take swimming lessons as a kid"

SEGMENT 1805:
Summary: I think I did it. 

SEGMENT 1806:
Summary: "I didn't like these types of organized activities and classes in general," she says. "I don't think that I had major problems learning how to swim per se" I think my parents always wanted a swimming pool. I think that was something they really appreciated and enjoyed. And in the US, it's pretty common for houses to have pools. know that in other countries that's very rare. "We always had pool parties when I was a kid," he says. "I liked being in the pool but I didn't really like swimming just swimming back and forth and doing it"

SEGMENT 1807:
Summary: The Daily Discussion is a weekly, offbeat look at what's trending on social media. This week, Jarrett ponders the rise of the "alt-right" on Twitter and Facebook.

SEGMENT 1808:
Summary: In today's episode we're gonna talk about swimming. I think I might have talked a little bit about this before. I don't think I've done a whole episode on this.

SEGMENT 1809:
Summary: As a teenager, I didn't build the pool that much. However, my friends, whenever they came over in the summer, they always asked to go in the pool because they didn't have pools. So that's what we'll talk about today.

SEGMENT 1810:
Summary: "I didn't really want to go in alone and just swim or spend time alone in there," she said. "I liked playing in the pool with other people and playing games"

SEGMENT 1811:
Summary: As an adult, I definitely don't swim much nowadays. It's not one of my things. activities and I think one of the reasons for that is that I never really spent a lot of time perfecting my swimming technique. I took swimming lessons but I neverreally practiced with the different strokes and the different techniques. I just doggie paddled because it's the easiest way to get from point A to point B in a pool without needing to use some proper technique. So I never got very good at swimming and at the different techniques, unfortunately. And it's one of the reasons why I'm not swimming. I don't really like going to pool that much as an adult either. However, I love taking my son pool. He loves being taken into the pool by either my wife or me, and he can spend like hours in there. He likes taking his little water toys in there and it's really fun for us too, but it's tiring.

SEGMENT 1812:
Summary: "I like going to the beach and kind of playing in the waves. I like being able to swim with waves or go under the waves," he says. "I really prefer going in. a lot of you. All that stuff"

SEGMENT 1813:
Summary: Listen to this episode as many times as you need to understand it. Remember that you have the transcript available if you need it. That's below the episode in the episode description.

SEGMENT 1814:
Summary: That should be your goal. 

SEGMENT 1815:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Please submit your best shots for next week. Visit CNN.com/Travel next week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 1816:
Summary: the water at the beach. 

SEGMENT 1817:
Summary: I like going to the beach in Mexico, for example, middle of Mexico or the south of the country where the water is very warm. It's like taking a bath and I can just enjoy the water. So that's the type of water activity that I prefer. I don't really like spending a lot of time in pool unless I'm in there with my son. I started to like those activities more when I got older. So I started  so I started. t of bravery. It's been a great experience for me and my family.

SEGMENT 1818:
Summary: "I get a little bit scared, but I kind of like the adrenaline of jumping off that," he says. "I also really like jumping into the water from high places"

SEGMENT 1819:
Summary: "I've been able to do that at a few different places like in Hawaii or in some places here in California where there are big rocks that could jump off of into lakes or into ocean water. So that's really fun for me as well," he says.

SEGMENT 1820:
Summary: I hope that this episode was interesting for you. and I hope it was good practice for your listening. If you want my advanced episodes, if you want to practice with real English, spoken fast, then make sure to become a listening time family member or VIP. And also please give it a five star rating and write a review if you can. Swimming is a great cardio exercise. In English, we use the word cardio to refer to exercises. that are good for your heart. When you're working your heart muscle, this is a cardio exercise, like running. The swim is great for your heart. If you're working your heart, that's cardio, as we call it. And the good E is...

SEGMENT 1821:
Summary: Swimming is easy on your joints. It doesn't put that same pressure on your knees that running does. So I like running, I'm not good at it, but I want to get better.

SEGMENT 1822:
Summary: "I know that running is maybe not the best for my joints. It's not thebest for my knees," he says. "But I'm not going to stop running. I'm going to keep going."

SEGMENT 1823:
Summary: I think that there are ways that we can do it. And of course, not put too much pressure on our joints. If you do it for many years, you might deal with some discomfort.

SEGMENT 1824:
Summary: Connor: For some people, time management is really hard, and for other people this is easy, and they're naturally good. value, punctuality. In this episode, we're gonna talk about a topic that I really like, but for some people it might not be the best one, and that is time management.

SEGMENT 1825:
Summary: "I'm a punctual person and I don't see arriving on time," he says. "So for me, for example, I'm an early riser and a late riser," he adds.

SEGMENT 1826:
Summary: "I view it as an obligation. I have no choice. Of course, I arrive on time. So that's my mentality. Other people might have a different mentality"

SEGMENT 1827:
Summary: great at these things. 

SEGMENT 1828:
Summary: "I'm pretty punctual. Other people might not be so punctual because they give themselves the choice. They say I could arrive on time but I can just arrive ten minutes late and it makes no difference"

SEGMENT 1829:
Summary: In some places, this is normal. This is what is more acceptable even. You might not want to arrive on time to a birthday party because that might be seen as a little inappropriate. Like you're supposed to arrive late. Right? And you might be one of these people and it might be because this is the culture where you live.

SEGMENT 1830:
Summary: "I know that in some cultures this is normal. I've had that experience before, and I know that some cultures don't like it," she said.

SEGMENT 1831:
Summary: So again... 

SEGMENT 1832:
Summary: "Some people are punctual, some people aren't," he says. "If they don't see any other alternative, then it's just what they have to do. That's what works for me"

SEGMENT 1833:
Summary: "I think I'm pretty strong in this area is finishing work on time. And another area of life in which it's important to have some time management"

SEGMENT 1834:
Summary: I don't have the option of not finishing my work on time. Have to do it. So again, for me, I view it as something that is not a choice. It's an obligation. There are two advanced episodes, one on the fifth day of the month. There's the sound training video, and there's the Q&A every week. If you're a family member or a VIP, my membership, then there's a lot more.

SEGMENT 1835:
Summary: "I'm committed to doing those things on certain days of month. So I have no choice. There are a lot of things that I have to... publish," she says.

SEGMENT 1836:
Summary: Everyone is expecting a new listening practice seminar on the first day of the month. The seminar will be held on the second day of each month.

SEGMENT 1837:
Summary: "I don't procrastinate. I just try to do things every day and work for the same amount of time every day so that helps as well," he says. "I give myself these deadlines. I promise that certain content will be... will be available on certain days" I like to use my downtime to do certain productive things that I really want to do, but it's hard to find time. e.g. language learning. So instead of using social media or watching Netflix or whatever, during my downtime, I tend to do language learning or do some reading. I want to talk about my strengths and my weaknesses because I have both. One of the areas which I need to get better at managing my time is regarding sleep. So I definitely have room for improvement here.

SEGMENT 1838:
Summary: In my mind, I have a fixed bedtime. The word fixed in this case means that this bedtime is set. to improve because you're not really good yet. So I have some room for improvement in this area. Okay, I need to go to bed at this time.

SEGMENT 1839:
Summary: I think that my bedtime is 10pm. However, in reality, I allow for more flexibility than that. Sometimes I wake up in morning and I feel like I didn't get enough sleep.

SEGMENT 1840:
Summary: "I'm not good at managing my time. I'm sure that my life will be better as a result because I'll feel better in the morning"

SEGMENT 1841:
Summary: When it comes to... 

SEGMENT 1842:
Summary: "I like planning out my month and knowing what I'm supposed to be doing on which day and keeping track of all of my appointments and that kind of stuff," she said.

SEGMENT 1843:
Summary: I'm not good at this. 

SEGMENT 1844:
Summary: "I've always resisted using a planner. I don't know why, but I've always had trouble accepting this idea that I should use a planner," she says. "I just recently bought a whiteboard calendar that I can write on with a marker, a race" "I'm still learning to use it, and I'm still bad at it.  like a monthly planner thing," she says. "I...  I...  like to keep track of everything," she adds.

SEGMENT 1845:
Summary: "I still have the tendency to just ignore my plan. I don't know why that is so this is something that I really need to get better at" "Meat" refers to something that is clean and tidy. It's organized, right? So if you're able to do that, congratulations because I'm not on that level yet" "I'm practicing it now with my monthly planning. So that's something that I'm definitely weak at, but I hope to improve," she said.

SEGMENT 1846:
Summary: "I like to be really productive, have deadlines, be punctual, and all that is good, obviously. But I also have the tendency of overestimating what I can do with my time," he says.

SEGMENT 1847:
Summary: "I think I can do a lot of stuff, but in reality I end up overestimating what I'm capable of, and so I'm trying to do too much," she says. "This is something that can really affect you and affect your mood and frustrate you"

SEGMENT 1848:
Summary: "I think I can do a ton of things. But in reality, I... can't do that many things because there are only 24 hours in a day," she said. "If I can get better at this then I think that my stress level will decrease," she added. CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1849:
Summary: "I hope that with time I can improve in this area and that will have benefits for me. different forms I hope," he said.

SEGMENT 1850:
Summary: "There are still a lot of things that I need to improve in this regard. So those were some of my weaknesses and you can see that even though I'm generally considered to be pretty good at managing my time"

SEGMENT 1851:
Summary: Robert: I hope this episode was interesting for you and that it was good practice for your listening. Remember that if you feel ready to practice with my advanced podcast episodes, then make sure to become a listening time family member.

SEGMENT 1852:
Summary: The link is also in the description down below. That's patreon.com slash US Conversations. The video is part of a larger series of videos on the site.

SEGMENT 1853:
Summary: English Lannos talks about his strengths and weaknesses when it comes to managing his time. He says he's good at arriving on time to different things and that he's not so good at being punctual. This is the 142nd episode of the Listening Time Podcast. We're going to talk about something that's a little bit sensitive and maybe a little controversial. When I talk to people from different countries. By the way, the phrasal verb come up. In this case means that something is mentioned. Someone says something.

SEGMENT 1854:
Summary: People in the US would be completely perplexed by the fact that some people would take exception to us using the term American to describe ourselves. Most people maybe 99% of people have never even heard of the other viewpoint before and they would be really confused.

SEGMENT 1855:
Summary: So let me explain why. 

SEGMENT 1856:
Summary: In many countries throughout the world, I don't know how many, but in my country, for example, in the US, when we learn geography in school, we learn that there are seven continents.

SEGMENT 1857:
Summary: So for some of you, 

SEGMENT 1858:
Summary: North America is one continent and South America. is another continent. Pretty much everyone in the US learns this as far as I know. But in many countries in what we would refer to as South America or Central America or Mexico, for example, people might learn in school that... there's just one continent called America. This fact that we have two different ideas of what these continents are called or if they are two continents or it's just one continent is one of the roots of this debate. So let's say that you live in a country like Colombia and you learn that you living in a continent called America. . And this is the start of the issue.

SEGMENT 1859:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 1860:
Summary: You live in South America but more generally speaking, you just say you live in America. Right? Right? You live in. South America. You live. in. America. right?  Right?

SEGMENT 1861:
Summary: "People with this situation, people that grow up in a country like this, could easily consider themselves to be American," he says. "So people with this situations, they could easily be Americans," he adds.

SEGMENT 1862:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 1863:
Summary: If you live in France, you could say that you're European. Just like, for example, if you live  in France and you're a French citizen.

SEGMENT 1864:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 1865:
Summary: Someone in Colombia could say that they are Colombian and they are also American. Because that's the continent that your country is praying. But you live in the continent of Europe. So your French and your European.

SEGMENT 1866:
Summary: If you live in one of these countries in South America or Central America, then your continent is still America. It makes sense because with this system, with this geographical perspective, it makes sense.

SEGMENT 1867:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1868:
Summary: What does the term American mean and who does it refer to? Who is American? What does it mean to be American and who is it referring to?

SEGMENT 1869:
Summary: In the US people don't learn that there's one continent called America. People here wouldn't use the term America to describe everything from Canada all the way down to Argentina.

SEGMENT 1870:
Summary: We would think of North America, South America, and sometimes Central America. So those terms are different because of our experience of what we've learned in school. So we often...

SEGMENT 1871:
Summary: In general people here they might think of Everything to the south of the US as Latin America. That's not really a Continental distinction, but it's just a way to classify this area. Latin America is a very common term that is used here. In most other places around the world people can identify with both a country. and a continent. But in the US people don't really use the term North Americans, right? And they don'treally identify with a continent, either. "I don't think I've heard someone say that my whole life people don't identify with The continent people here just use the term American right I'm American and People in Canada would say I'm Canadian"

SEGMENT 1872:
Summary: "I think this will be a really interesting topic and a lot of you will learn a lot about this topic as I talk about it. here. But for others, if you live in certain countries, you might know exactly what I'm talking about," he says.

SEGMENT 1873:
Summary: The controversy here is more with the US and the people in the region that we would call Latin America. People in the US don't really identify with the continent in North America. So really, people just say, I'm American.

SEGMENT 1874:
Summary: Some people identify with a country and a continent, and in the US, people just identify with the country. So these are some things that result in two different usages of the word American depending on who you are.

SEGMENT 1875:
Summary: The name of my country officially is the United States of America. Of course we usually just abbreviate that and say the US. But there's one other really important thing and In my opinion, it's probably the most important factor here.

SEGMENT 1876:
Summary: most of the time. 

SEGMENT 1877:
Summary: The name of our country is similar to names of other countries in the sense that the official name is multiple words, but really... people abbreviated and they only say one word or something. We just say the US, but of course the actual name of the country is the United States of America.

SEGMENT 1878:
Summary: The official name of the country is Estados Unigos Mejicanos. In English, that translates to United Mexican States. So a perfect example is Mexico. Pretty much everyone refers to this country as Mexico.

SEGMENT 1879:
Summary: So even though this is... 

SEGMENT 1880:
Summary: The word demonym refers to the term used to describe a group of people from a certain place. In the US, our country's name officially speaking is the United States of America. There is no other possible word that works in English that could be used to describe someone from the USA except for the word American. The Eminem is American just like United Mexican states the Eminem is Mexican so I make sense. In Mexico you don't make the demonym from the Estalos Unitos Mexicanos. You make it from the Mexicanos part. So, in the US it's the same. We have the United States of America, so we use the word America to make the dominant and say American. Just like in the UK, the UK is a pretty weird one, just like the US. The diminutive is American because there's no other you know easy word to use to describe someone from the U.S. You don't have to do this for any other country. So because of all that, in the US people call themselves Americans.

SEGMENT 1881:
Summary: But 

SEGMENT 1882:
Summary: "I think people should be able to have their own opinions. I'm not presenting an opinion here. I just wanted to show the two different... perspectives, right? If someone believes that their continent is called America and they identify with that continent, then they can say, I'm American" "It's really the fact that these two people are talking about two different systems, right? Kind of like how in the European Union people might just use the word Europe refer to the EU, but there are countries in the continent of Europe that aren't part of the EU," he says.

SEGMENT 1883:
Summary: correct and one is incorrect. 

SEGMENT 1884:
Summary: "I just want to talk about this because it's a very interesting topic for me. And before we get started, remember that if you need my help understanding native English speakers when they speak fast, then you'll definitely be interested in my listening practice seminars"

SEGMENT 1885:
Summary: A similar example that I thought of. So... similar example. That's what I'm going to go with. I'll let you know how it goes.

SEGMENT 1886:
Summary: The term American is used for different reasons in different parts of the world. When used by someone in the U.S. and someone in Colombia, for example, they're referring to different things.

SEGMENT 1887:
Summary: I get a lot of questions from people saying why do you use the term American for people in the US and I want to help educate other people that might not know that other people use it. And so like I said, I'm not presenting an opinion, I would just like to educate people a little bit.

SEGMENT 1888:
Summary: "I just wanted to talk about this because it's come up a lot with different students of mine when I have different conversations. So I think it's really fascinating. and I don't get mad about this"

SEGMENT 1889:
Summary: Remember that you can get my training to help you understand native speakers when they speak fast. You can join my membership to get my listening practice seminars.

SEGMENT 1890:
Summary: This is great practice for those of you who wanna listen to two people speaking, and not just one. The link is down below in the episode description. That's patreon.com slash US Conversations. And if you want my new podcast, in which I talk to different English teachers from around the country about different topics, make sure to sign up for my US conversations podcast.

SEGMENT 1891:
Summary: The game is available on patreon.com. The link is also in the description below. For more information on the game, visit the official website.

SEGMENT 1892:
Summary: Some people take exception to my usage of this term to refer exclusively to people from the US. The term take exception. means that you disagree with something. You don't agree with it.

SEGMENT 1893:
Summary: In the US almost everybody here would be completely perplexed. Why is that? Many of you probably don't understand why and in the US most people would be perplexed too.

SEGMENT 1894:
Summary: Connor: I hope that this podcast has been a very useful resource for you. If you're interested in that, you can become a listening time family member and you'll receive two new advanced podcast episodes every month. In those episodes, I speak at normal speed. I speak fast, like native speakers normally speak. In high school, especially in high school. That's where we do more essay writing. We have to read different books in our English class and then write about those books, write different essays about... the books that we read. And then I also studied English in college. My major was English. "For me that was never a big deal, but most other people struggled with essay writing when they were in school," she says. "I remember friends of mine, other classmates that heated writing essays because for them it seemed really hard"

SEGMENT 1895:
Summary: "I never understood why it was that hard because it was just following the formula. And... me I never understand why it's that hard," he says.

SEGMENT 1896:
Summary: I actually worked as an essay tutor for about a year or a little less when I was in college. You don't have to be super creative to get boot grades on your essays in the US. So that was never too hard for me.

SEGMENT 1897:
Summary: When he was younger he did some creative writing as a kid and even older when he was an adult. He helped foreigners who were living in the US and who were taking ESL classes in college. ESL stands for English as a second language. "I wanted to write different stories with different superheroes that we invented. And I remember having so much fun with that and writing those stories," she said.

SEGMENT 1898:
Summary: I don't have those 

SEGMENT 1899:
Summary: "I don't have those stories anymore, but I have memories of writing those stories and having a lot of fun writing," he says. "As an adult, I also liked creative writing. and I always tried to start writing a book"

SEGMENT 1900:
Summary: "This book is fiction, of course. It's a collection of three short stories" "I was never that satisfied with what I was writing so maybe someday I'll be able to finish writing that fiction book that I always dreamed of writing" "I think that later on in life I might try to achieve that goal that I never achieved before and write a novel for English speakers. Hopefully I do it at some point," he says.

SEGMENT 1901:
Summary: In English, when we say that something dies out, we're saying that it disappears. it goes away. In English,  when we say something dies, we mean that it dies out.

SEGMENT 1902:
Summary: "It feels very personal and intimate to have a pencil in your hand and write a letter to someone" "I enjoyed writing those letters when I was younger. Now you can still write letters on the computer, but you usually just consider those to be emails" Many people have to do this all the time because of their job. Even if you don't have a job that requires you to write many emails, it's still necessary to write emails.

SEGMENT 1903:
Summary: This is something that all of us should try to get better at. or whatever it may be, this is something we should all try to improve on.

SEGMENT 1904:
Summary: In English, when we say that someone gets a bad impression of someone, we're saying that they have a bad feeling or bad image about someone else. So we don't want the other person to have a good impression of us.

SEGMENT 1905:
Summary: It's important to learn how to properly write an email, how to format it, and how to spell correctly. So make sure to proofread the email for any mistakes and make sure that we're doing. book which I wrote. It's a collection of three short mystery stories written in English and translated into Spanish.

SEGMENT 1906:
Summary: things correctly. 

SEGMENT 1907:
Summary: When we write emails or anything else, it's a good practice to proofread and make sure that you didn't write anything incorrectly. So I think email writing is very important for all. of us. Next, let's talk about writing texts. So texts are maybe the most common type of writing nowadays. Texts are very informal compared to other types of writing. Of course sometimes you have to send a more formal style of text message. But for the most part, texts. tend to be less formal so you can add more of your personality.

SEGMENT 1908:
Summary: "We're going to be right text messages. So we do that all the time. And so this is...  This is what we do," he says.

SEGMENT 1909:
Summary: There's really no right or wrong way to text. Some people might think that other people's texts look ugly because of the way that they abbreviate words or spell words wrong or whatever. "I think that this is a good way to remember things from the past," she says. "It can spark my memory and I can remember the things that I did"

SEGMENT 1910:
Summary: In English when we say that something... sparks your memory. We're saying that something causes you to remember something from the past. So this is a way that we can spark our memory and remember something that we did before. And I'm sure you see different benefits to this. We tend to forget our dreams very quickly after we wake up. So that's something that we can prevent if we keep a dream journal. And one other type of writing I wanted to bring up is writing in a foreign language. Just because you speak English well doesn't mean you can write. well, unfortunately. And so this is a separate skill that we have to train. I think it's something we can get better at if we read in foreign languages.

SEGMENT 1911:
Summary: "I think that's one of the best ways to do this. And I talked about this in the last episode how," he says.

SEGMENT 1912:
Summary:  reading in English will definitely help your writing skills. It will help you see how sentences are properly structured, punctuated, and how words are spelled in English.

SEGMENT 1913:
Summary:  Alright, why don't we stop there for today?  We've got a lot to talk about, so let's get to it.

SEGMENT 1914:
Summary: If you're a Spanish speaker who wants to read in English, then make sure to click on the link to the Amazon page. That's in the episode description and it will take you to the product page on Amazon and you can buy that ebook. And if you want my advanced episodes, remember to become a listening time family member.

SEGMENT 1915:
Summary: This episode is a transcript of the previous episode. Use the Transcript to help students with reading comprehension and vocabulary. At the bottom of the page, please share your feedback about the podcast. In the US we have a very particular format of how to write an essay. It's like a structure or a formula that you're supposed to follow. We need to learn what each paragraph is supposed to contain. Pronunciation is probably the element of English that is talked about the least. Of course, if you learned as a kid or even as a teenager, yeah, you can achieve that level. But most of you are learning English as a foreign language.

SEGMENT 1916:
Summary: It's really hard to sound like a native speaker if you're learning as an adult. So first thing you need to do is lower your expectations.

SEGMENT 1917:
Summary: English is what we call a stress-timed language. This means we have more or less the same amount of time between syllables. In English stress is everything. CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1918:
Summary: The word no is stressed. Now I have stress on four, on 4, genetically. But then all of the next three syllables after it are all syllables that don't have a lot of stress.

SEGMENT 1919:
Summary: In the word sad, has pretty much the same amount of time that we use to say it as the last three syllables of unfortunately. Because of that rule, there are many times when syllables are said really fast and really short.

SEGMENT 1920:
Summary: So listen to the two one more time. 

SEGMENT 1921:
Summary: Unfortunately, no. 

SEGMENT 1922:
Summary: You can hear how fast and how short the syllables are on the word unfortunately. So you can hear  how fast  the word is moving.

SEGMENT 1923:
Summary: In English, an unstressed syllable might be one-third or sometimes one-fourth the length of a stressed syllable. In Spanish, each syllable has a pretty similar amount of time that it takes to pronounce that syllable, so that's an example of what a stressed-timed language is.

SEGMENT 1924:
Summary: But I love it. 

SEGMENT 1925:
Summary: "I do a lot of training in practice. It's one of my favorite aspects of teaching English," she says. "It's a great way to get to know your students better"

SEGMENT 1926:
Summary: In a syllable-time language, like Spanish, you don't have that difference. a huge difference. However, in a syllables-to-syllable language like Spanish you do.

SEGMENT 1927:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 1928:
Summary: Stress syllables and unstressed syllables don't have a big difference in how long it takes to say them. When a syllable is not stressed, it can often become reduced. So, for example, the word F-O-R is usually not stressed in English. These words or syllables that aren't stressed can often become reduced. Because the vowel is shortened. happens in virtually every sentence that we say.

SEGMENT 1929:
Summary: The stress in summary in a nutshell. Okay, so that's a stress in Summary. Now, let's get to the good stuff.

SEGMENT 1930:
Summary: English is a very difficult language to pronounce like a native speaker. We have different sounds in English than the sounds in Spanish, for example. It's not natural for you to make these sounds.

SEGMENT 1931:
Summary: The stress of English is one of the biggest challenges. Some of the sounds might also be hard to pronounce. English can be difficult to pronounce if you don't know how to pronounce it.

SEGMENT 1932:
Summary: Pronunciation doesn't improve the same way as fluency or listening or vocabulary. So how do you improve your pronunciation? I just talked about pronunciation and about difficulties with English pronunciation.

SEGMENT 1933:
Summary: Those things... 

SEGMENT 1934:
Summary: "I'm an advocate of allowing yourself to fly the language in a natural way," he says. "When you say that you're an advocate, we're saying that you support some idea or something. something"

SEGMENT 1935:
Summary: I'm an advocate of allowing yourself to acquire the language naturally, mainly through listening, but also reading. So I really like this topic and I want to talk about English pronunciation in general and about the difficulties with pronunciation and about how you can improve your pronunciation.

SEGMENT 1936:
Summary: Remember to join my US Conversations Podcast if you want to. and collocations in your brain that you can reproduce once you've heard them enough. So this should be a great topic for today.

SEGMENT 1937:
Summary: Okay? 

SEGMENT 1938:
Summary: "Pronunciation doesn't improve as naturally as these other elements. So those things improve naturally. But those things don't improve naturally," he said.

SEGMENT 1939:
Summary: Okay? 

SEGMENT 1940:
Summary: Pronunciation requires a more concentrated effort in order to... improve it. Listening will improve your pronunciation. So listen to your music and try to pronounce it correctly.

SEGMENT 1941:
Summary: That's for sure. 

SEGMENT 1942:
Summary: The key to improving your pronunciation is to notice your mistakes. You need to notice the real sounds of English. Once you begin to notice these things, you start to shift your understanding and your expectation of what things are supposed to sound like. This is also something that doesn't come naturally most of the time. It's something that comes more with practice and training, actually. For example, my English pronunciation seminars and my listening practice seminars are a great way to start to notice things.

SEGMENT 1943:
Summary: I help you change your perception of what things are supposed to sound like. seminars can help you do that. A teacher can point these things out to you and help you notice them. And then once you've been trained a little bit, then you can start to do this on your own. There are two categories of pronunciation mistakes. So there are mistakes that are easily noticeable and fixable. And when it comes to noticing... and focusing on mistakes. ning to start noticing on your own.

SEGMENT 1944:
Summary: You can start practicing with real conversations between me and other Americans. This is what you need if you can already understand me pretty well. So if you want to join that you can click on the link in the episode description.

SEGMENT 1945:
Summary: Many English learners stress the wrong syllable. It's very easy to notice if a teacher points that out to you. You just stress the other syllable instead of Japan.

SEGMENT 1946:
Summary: Instead of stressing the I, we would stress the one. It's not hard. If someone points that up to you, that you're stressing the wrong word, it's pretty easy to notice that.

SEGMENT 1947:
Summary: little bit more in the future. 

SEGMENT 1948:
Summary: With skipped syllables, for example, in the word family, the eye is siphoned. We don't say family, we say family.

SEGMENT 1949:
Summary: "It's just family. Like it's not several. It's several. You just skip the syllable. That's something that the teacher can point out to you"

SEGMENT 1950:
Summary: Certain letter combinations like the TU can be pronounced CHU sometimes, like situation and DU can be with a J sound, like graduate.

SEGMENT 1951:
Summary: Maybe you just need to change the pre to prime. Or sometimes you're just saying... wrong vowel. Instead of saying priority, maybe you say priority.

SEGMENT 1952:
Summary: You just need to change the a to an o notice. Or maybe you say notice, but the correct pronunciation is notice. So those are examples of fixable errors.

SEGMENT 1953:
Summary: Pronunciation mistakes are easy to identify if you're a trained teacher who can actually teach pronunciation, of course. Your accent refers to the way that you pronounce English sounds based on the sounds in your own language. So for example there are certain vowel sounds in English that you don't have in Spanish.

SEGMENT 1954:
Summary: hit and heat. 

SEGMENT 1955:
Summary: Some of these are sounds that you don't have in your language. That might be hard for you to even hear the difference, right? Or laugh versus love or food versus foot.

SEGMENT 1956:
Summary: So because of that it's harder to... 

SEGMENT 1957:
Summary: Patreon.com slash us conversations. Please support us on patreon.com by pledging at least $1. For more information about patreon, visit www.patreon.co.

SEGMENT 1958:
Summary: Don't forget to join my membership and specifically if you become a listening time super member or any of the higher tiers. You'll get my pronunciation seminars where I actually train you and help you with your pronunciation.

SEGMENT 1959:
Summary: There are many other examples that I could give, but I think you get the point. So you can go down and click. to hear them and harder to fix them.

SEGMENT 1960:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 1961:
Summary: You have to accept that you're not going to get rid of your accent very quickly. And usually... it stays forever, but you can reduce it over time. But it takes a long time.

SEGMENT 1962:
Summary: When it comes to improving your pronunciation, I would say that you should focus mostly on the fixable errors. So when you're trying to learn a new language, focus on the things that you can fix.

SEGMENT 1963:
Summary: Okay? 

SEGMENT 1964:
Summary: There are a lot of fixable errors in your accent. You can also take classes with an accent, coach, a professional who can help you with this.

SEGMENT 1965:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 1966:
Summary: I hope this gave you a good idea of why pronunciation is difficult in English. And of course, remember to sign up for my membership if you want my pronunciation training.

SEGMENT 1967:
Summary: The link is in the description below this episode. That's patreon.com slash listening time. And of course, sign up for my new podcast as well.

SEGMENT 1968:
Summary: That really helps me out and it will help them out too. Alright, let's get started. Are your ears ready?  Are you ready?

SEGMENT 1969:
Summary: English is one of the hardest languages to pronounce like a native speaker. If you want to speak like an American, for example, and you didn't learn English as a child, that is really hard. I don't think I've ever heard a person who learned English as an adult and speaks exactly the same way that an American speaks.

SEGMENT 1970:
Summary: "I don't think I've ever seen or met a person who sounds exactly like a native speaker if they learned as an adult," he says.

SEGMENT 1971:
Summary: The first cat cafe was in Taiwan in the 1990s. The idea is that you can go to one of these cafes and spend time with cats. There is a limited amount of people who can go in at a time.

SEGMENT 1972:
Summary: The one I went to had a fixed rate of £7 per hour. This included hot drink as well, so you can ask for coffee or a cup of tea. But it didn't include food, so if you wanted to buy a sandwich you would have to pay extra. I have seen that in other cat cafes you pay per minute.

SEGMENT 1973:
Summary: If you pay seven pounds, know that you have an hour, then you don't have to look at your phone or your watch all the time to see what time it is. Just in case you spend an hour and a half there without realizing, which could be quite expensive. Second time that I went all of the cats were asleep and I talked about with this with the people that were there and they said they depends on the time You can't go and they're sleeping because you'll just start there looking and you can't interact with them. You have to go and look at them while they are sleeping.

SEGMENT 1974:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Please submit your best shots for next week. Visit CNN.com/Travel next week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 1975:
Summary: When you go to the cat cafe, the cats are roaming freely within the cafe, so they're not encoders. Visitors can pet or stroke them, play with them, or just watch them in this relaxing environment. There are a few rules such as you are not allowed to disturb cats if they are sleeping.

SEGMENT 1976:
Summary: A lot of these cat cafes partner with animal shelters so that you can adopt the cats that are at the cafe. As it is a cafe, there are menus of drinks and light snacks so you can have coffee, a cup of tea and maybe a sandwich.

SEGMENT 1977:
Summary: You soon know which type of cat you would like to take home depending on your personality. Spending time with cats can actually reduce stress and provide comfort. Some people even take a book to read while they are there.

SEGMENT 1978:
Summary: I've only got a small number of close friends, people that I am regularly in contact with. My best friend is called Chris. He's a computer programmer and he's always been interested in the same things as me football music and general sports.

SEGMENT 1979:
Summary: My second best friend is Paul. I've known him since I went to university. We were on the same course and we shared a house but we lived there. We have similar sort of interest.

SEGMENT 1980:
Summary: I've got a couple of friends that I do sport with. We keep in contact and we know what each other are doing. And do you see Martin? We meet up whenever we can.

SEGMENT 1981:
Summary: One is called Andy and the other one is called Luns. One is Andy and one is Luns, and they are both called 'Andy' and 'Luns'

SEGMENT 1982:
Summary: We go to play five side football together, which is great fun. We're not very good but we do enjoy playing. After the match we go to a local bar to have a drink and to reminisce about things that we have done with us.

SEGMENT 1983:
Summary: They're both slightly younger than me. They're a little fitter and they play football. And are they both the similar age to you are they younger?

SEGMENT 1984:
Summary: lot better than what I do. 

SEGMENT 1985:
Summary: I like watching sports on TV, but I'm not someone who likes to play sport. I could go to pub and chat to other people there. Sometimes pubs up quiz nights which is a good opportunity to meet other people and find out what interests people have. I've never enjoyed playing team sports at all. I have favourite football teams and favourite cricket teams, depending on who's playing. But I haven't got one team who I support.

SEGMENT 1986:
Summary: Can you describe? 

SEGMENT 1987:
Summary: to do both. 

SEGMENT 1988:
Summary: Sometimes you feel like sitting down and just watching anything that's on TV. Another time you want to have a more relaxing evening, you can just open your favourite book and read.

SEGMENT 1989:
Summary: I like thought-provoking books. Nothing scary or fluffy romantic stories, but something where you might learn something about people and characters and an interesting story.

SEGMENT 1990:
Summary: I like to learn new things but nothing too heavy. I really don't have light scary scary TV- Provoking or films or scary books, that's just not my thing. My favourite holiday was in Tunisia because it was something that I'd never experienced before. It was really a memorable holiday because really it was my first trip abroad. It was amazing. We visited a market and it was so colourful and all different types of foods.

SEGMENT 1991:
Summary: I've never actually been on one, but I imagine that I won't like it. Like I said before I don't really like long clothes.

SEGMENT 1992:
Summary: I used to work in a bank and it was quite an easy job and you had to talk to people a lot. And I'm not really interested in America. I suppose it's an interesting place to go because the culture is quite different.

SEGMENT 1993:
Summary: I'd like to go to Canada, although I don't really like flying long distances, but I know that the scenery is very beautiful there, they have enormous trees and especially in the autumn it's really nice and really colourful. One thing I really enjoy doing is having a summer family barbecue. When the weather is so hot and you can invite all your friends and family around and we have a really big table in garden. Ds bring salads, desserts and savory food for everyone to enjoy. All the children can play in the garden and they can sit on the floor with blankets. In the evening we all sit and roast much mellows around the fire pit. In my free time I usually like to make things. I enjoy all types of crafts, knitting, sewing, crochet. I'm not very good at painting, it's not something I enjoy, but I like to be creative with materials and wool.

SEGMENT 1994:
Summary: I would prefer to have tiny feet and huge hands. I think hands were a lot better doing different jobs. Do you prefer to read or to watch TV? I think it's good. Is your hand twice the size of your normal hand? Or is it 50% bigger? Is your hand bigger or smaller than normal? Tell us what you think.

SEGMENT 1995:
Summary: I don't know. 

SEGMENT 1996:
Summary: I would prefer to have a personal maid to all the routine jobs. that I have to do. They will be taken away from me and I could concentrate on what I was interested in and I do enjoy cooking so I don't need a chef. In your free time would you prefer to drive a racing car or to fly a helicopter? Hought of flying in a helicopter doesn't appeal to me as I think it is a more dangerous thing to do. I'd rather be in...

SEGMENT 1997:
Summary: . control on the land driving a racing car. control. on theLand driving a race car. Control. on. the landdriving a racing cars.

SEGMENT 1998:
Summary: I would prefer to only eat hot food. There's quite a variety of foods which I enjoy eating hot, whereas if food is cold it's not quite so appealing in my life. I imagine it might be cooked food that has gone cold.

SEGMENT 1999:
Summary: I was thinking 

SEGMENT 2000:
Summary: I would have salads and sandwiches and I would be quite happy eating cold food like that but not like hot food that has gone cold like a cold hamburger then then no but sandwiches and salads I think that would be okay. I would mind okay now would you rather have wings or a mermaid tail? I would much yourather have wings because then I will be able to fly to different locations and see different places.

SEGMENT 2001:
Summary: Yeah that's true, that's true. 

SEGMENT 2002:
Summary: I would prefer to eat dinner for every meal. I think monkeys will get very agitated and possibly do me some harm. Being stuck in a lift with 20 people is also not a good experience. So it's funny how we think. I'm not an outgoing person, so I would choose to whisper. I wouldn't like to draw attention to myself by shouting all the time. I'd rather people listen to me if I spoke in a quiet whisper. Would you rather have 10 mosquito bites more space?

SEGMENT 2003:
Summary: Okay, thank you for answering these. 

SEGMENT 2004:
Summary: I think I would rather have one spider bite. It would be easier to treat and put some spray on it to stop any infections. That would be better than having 10 mosquito bites, possibly in all over my body. Only some spider bites are poisonous.

SEGMENT 2005:
Summary: I think I would have a pet unicorn. I think it would be a lot more appealing to people they would like to come and see a unicorn. And a dragon could be a fire hazard in your house because dragons breed fire so they're a bit more dangerous than the unicorn. I think I would prefer it if it was always raining. Because if it does rain a lot, that water runs away. If it's always snowing then the snow would build up and eventually it could suffocate me and I wouldn't be able to breathe. I would much rather go to the beach.

SEGMENT 2006:
Summary: I think it would be quite fun to be jumping all day like a kangaroo. You could travel long distances and see lots of different things. As opposed to a penguin waddling very slowly, it wouldn't get me particularly far.

SEGMENT 2007:
Summary: In 2027 the winners of the Eurovision Song Contest were Ukraine. But because the contest couldn't be held in Ukraine in 2023, it was decided that Liverpool would host the competition on their behalf. In 2023 it was held in Liverpool, in England.

SEGMENT 2008:
Summary: Sweden won the Eurovision Song Contest this year. Would you like to visit Sweden for next year's final? Click here to find out more about the contest.

SEGMENT 2009:
Summary: No, I don't think so. 

SEGMENT 2010:
Summary: "I think that we enjoyed it this year because it was in Liverpool and we love Liverpool as a city," says Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers.

SEGMENT 2011:
Summary: I don't think that it would be the same in another country. I think it would have to be very expensive as well, wouldn't it?

SEGMENT 2012:
Summary: Yes. Yeah. 

SEGMENT 2013:
Summary: It's becoming more popular every year. 

SEGMENT 2014:
Summary: We stayed in the city of Liverpool and we were able to watch them free events. The atmosphere was amazing. There were people from all over the world in the Fanzone area. Some areas had benches with flowers where you could take in the scenery. Instagram photos and share them with us at @dailymail.co.uk.

SEGMENT 2015:
Summary: There were many bands playing and you could watch them for free in the fan zone area. You just had to queue for quite a while to get in the area and one night we were lucky to see one of our favourite bands called the Lightning Seats. There were people from all over the world singing along to their country's entry. d food outlets and there was a great atmosphere and people were singing along.

SEGMENT 2016:
Summary: After Eurovision the city returned to normal. Some of the pianos have been removed and pop-up stages have been set up. It was a bit sad to see it go back to normal because during Eurovision there was a real bus. Hotels and apartments are my favourite places to stay when I travel. I haven't really enjoyed staying at hostels because they are very basic. They don't usually include breakfast and they are often shared with other people.

SEGMENT 2017:
Summary: Some adverts for really cheap hotels are often too good. Sometimes you see some adverts that are too good, but they're often not.

SEGMENT 2018:
Summary: If I went to a hotel and saw that it was really disgusting, then I would talk with a manager and see if I could get a refund. I don't think that I would stay there. No, I have never ordered room service.

SEGMENT 2019:
Summary: I don't really see the advantage to having dinner in your room because I imagine that it would smell of food afterwards as well. I usually stay at hotels like Premierin, Trappolort or Holidayin because they have hundreds of hotels throughout the country. It is quite affordable and you know, you know. I like that because I normally stay at hotels when I travel abroad and have to stay at the airport overnight so these hotel brands usually have hotels near the airport. I like to know what to expect because really I'm focused on my holiday abroad and I don't want to have the extra stress of not knowing whether the hotel is going to be comfortable or safe or even dirty.

SEGMENT 2020:
Summary: I've always... 

SEGMENT 2021:
Summary: I like the hotel to have a swimming pool and a spa. to relax. The nicest hotel I have stayed at was a five-star hotel in the south of France. I stayed at a lovely hotel and my f. had a positive experience with them. The gardens which surrounded the swimming pools. avourite part of it were the gardens which surround the swimming pool. The gardens were designed to look as if they were in the middle of a garden.

SEGMENT 2022:
Summary: the best option. 

SEGMENT 2023:
Summary: When I travel for pleasure and not for work, I prefer to spend a bit more money and to stay at a hotel or an apartment. For example, if I go on holiday... to France for a week, then I might prefer to say at an apartment which are usually independent and have their own kitchen. T has. t has.  t has   t    t has  t t t   has t has t t  t.

SEGMENT 2024:
Summary: For example, E is a beautiful. 

SEGMENT 2025:
Summary: I think it all comes down to what hotel. hotel with room service, a spa, different types of treatment for example, then it might be for a five-star. If it is a basic hotel and it doesn't have a kitchen then I would prefer an apartment. Best thing about staying at a hotel is there is usually a reception and you can check in after a certain... time. You don't have to meet up with the owner of the apartment and collect the keys. It can be more of a hassle if you don't want to meet the owner.

SEGMENT 2026:
Summary: Another thing that I like is... 

SEGMENT 2027:
Summary: The Listening Time Podcast is back with a new episode. Connor talks about the difference between staying in a hotel and a hostel. Connor also talks about whether he has ever been to a really disgusting hotel. Today's episode is going to be about English itself. I want to talk. about how English has changed over the centuries. I thought it would be really cool to look at some different verses from the King James Bible, which is from 1611. The term old English actually refers to an older language that doesn't really resemble today's English. So just be careful with that phrase, Old English, because many people use it incorrectly. There was Middle English from the 12th to the 15th century.

SEGMENT 2028:
Summary: a wolf. 

SEGMENT 2029:
Summary: Middle English has a lot of words that we can still understand nowadays, modern English. So middle English is a lot closer to modern English than old English is.

SEGMENT 2030:
Summary: English is not a different language in the sense that it's Spanish, right? It's still English, but it can still be very hard to understand for a native English speaker nowadays. So that was middle English. And then after that is when modern English was established, let's say. And so from that point until now, people have spoken modern English. English hasn't changed much in the past 400 years or so. There are some interesting changes that we can see. The past participle undergone, this comes from undergo. This means that you go through some process.

SEGMENT 2031:
Summary: The phrasal verb point out means that you highlight something. So I could point out a lot of examples, I chose... Just a few because my time is limited.

SEGMENT 2032:
Summary: Pronouns that start with TH and then also the pronoun ye Y e. So let me read you a verse from the King James Bible this is Romans 10 9 chapter 10 verse 9.

SEGMENT 2033:
Summary: We have thou, that if thou shalt confess, we have. Thy, thy mouth, and we also have thine, thine heart. So you'll notice that we have some interesting pronouns.

SEGMENT 2034:
Summary: In the past, English distinguished between the second person singular and second person plural. Instead of saying you, they would say... thou, if they are using you as a subject. If the word after this pronoun was a word starting with a vowel or an h many times, like in this verse, thine heart. If it was any other word with a consonant other than H, then it would be thai, thai mouth. Like it says in this verse, and then I'll read one other verse that has the word V in it. So in John 3-3, it says, Jesus answered and said, except a man be ble-

SEGMENT 2035:
Summary: Author sounds like a language nerd. I like languages and I like learning about languages so this type of topic is really interesting for me. Not all of you are language nerds like me but I'm sure that you'll still find this episode interesting and shared by author sounds.

SEGMENT 2036:
Summary: Instead of using these TH pronouns, they would use a why pronouns, right? E, U, etc. again, we cannot see the Kingdom of God. So here Jesus is addressing one person, he's talking to one person here.

SEGMENT 2037:
Summary: In many other languages, there is a difference when... you address one person and when you address more than one person. You use a different pronoun and probably a different verb conjugation. And this is actually a very helpful thing because it allows your audience to know if you're talking to just one person or if you are talking to all of them. We only say you, whether or not we're addressing a single person or multiple people. If I say you should come over to my house, you don't know if I'm only referring to you.

SEGMENT 2038:
Summary: You should come over. 

SEGMENT 2039:
Summary: The way that people used to speak in the past was more helpful because it eliminated this mystery. So that's a big change that we can see. Obviously we still understand when we read this in Bible or in other texts.

SEGMENT 2040:
Summary: The new series will feature a number of new characters and storylines. It will also feature a new ending for the series. The series will be available on Netflix in the U.S.

SEGMENT 2041:
Summary: Nowadays, when we talk in third-person singular, the verb usually ends with an S. Instead of saying believes, it says, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believe it in him should not perish but have everlasting life.

SEGMENT 2042:
Summary: "I want to read another review that I received on Apple Podcasts because I did that a couple episodes ago and I want to do that from time to time just to thank my  friends" "I'm. learning a little bit about some of the different ways that English has changed over the years.

SEGMENT 2043:
Summary: TH represented the third person singular in the past. believe it, right? That TH represented theThird person singular  in the. past.

SEGMENT 2044:
Summary: So, walk it instead of walks. 

SEGMENT 2045:
Summary: I like that extra syllable, that it at the end of verbs. I think it sounds really... cool, but maybe that's just because older styles tend to sound interesting and cool to modern years like mine. But I doubt that will ever go back to the speaking like that again.

SEGMENT 2046:
Summary: The past tense of the word speak is spoke, right? However, in the past, people would say, spake. So for example, John A30, it says, as he spake these words, many believed on him.

SEGMENT 2047:
Summary: R, like, you are in the past, they might have said, thou art. Instead of saying, R, like. you are. in the Past, they may have said: "Thou art"

SEGMENT 2048:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 2049:
Summary: In John 669, it says, and we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the son of the living God. He doesn't say, you are, he says, thou art.

SEGMENT 2050:
Summary: "I love you. I also really like that form. I love you," she wrote. "I also really love that form" "I loveYou. I really like you," he replied. "And I also love you."

SEGMENT 2051:
Summary: The King James Bible is full of words that we don't use nowadays. There are a lot of other examples that I could have pointed out, but I just wanted to highlight a few. I would say, yes, we just have to get used to it. The first time you encounter these words... You mig You just have to get used to it, but it's very understandable. ht be a little bit confused if you've never heard this used before. Once you realize what that word means, then it's pretty obvious after that.

SEGMENT 2052:
Summary: Shakespeare, William Shakespeare, and his style of English was very similar to the style that we saw today, and we read that in high school. So it's definitely understandable, but you just have to get used to it. Get used to those different words, the different pronouns. It will probably be similar to today's English but with some pretty noticeable differences Like what we just saw. But I would guess that it would still resemble the English that I'm speaking now.

SEGMENT 2053:
Summary: I hope that you found this episode interesting. I know this one was a little bit different, but I really wanted to talk about this in the episode. And if you feel ready to practice with my advanced episodes, make sure to become a listening time.

SEGMENT 2054:
Summary: Remember to give this podcast a five-star rating and right review and I might read it in the future. If you want my advanced podcast episodes, you can sign up to become a listening time family member. And you also have the link down there to sign up for my US.com slash US conversations.

SEGMENT 2055:
Summary: English teachers from around the country talk about many things. It's a lot of fun and great practice for your listening. Listen to the weekly conversations podcast on CNN iReport.

SEGMENT 2056:
Summary: Old English is the earliest form of English. It was spoken between the fifth and 11 centuries. In today's video we are going to see how to pronounce ed endings correctly. If you are reading or talking in English you should never pronounce ED endings as ED. There are three ways to pronounce these endings dropped, baked, liked and developed. And finally, another way to pronounce the E.D. ending is D. They'd rescued, lied, loved, changed, explained, robbed, hired, learned or continued. wondered, They'd rescue, lie, love, change, explain, rob, hire, learn or continue.

SEGMENT 2057:
Summary: For example, love, the last sound is because the... G-H is pronounced as laugh. So the past of laugh is laughed. Because the C-E is... pronounced as t, the pronunciation is t.

SEGMENT 2058:
Summary: The main thing that I want you to remember from this video is that you never pronounce them as E. Remember R is voiced, so remembered. Fresh is voiceless, so fresh. Open and is voiced so it's opened. Invited finishes in tea.

SEGMENT 2059:
Summary: R is voiced so retired. Trust finishes in tea. Trusted. Retire. R is voicedSo retired. trust finishes inTea.

SEGMENT 2060:
Summary: Invent finishes in tea. Invent finish in tea, invented. invented. In invent finish inTea.  Invent Finish In Tea.

SEGMENT 2061:
Summary: Miao finish is in w, so miao closed. The sound is z, so it's voiced closed. Rip is unvoiced, so ripped. clean, n is voiced, cleaned, sh is unVoiced, crashed, and finally represent is with a t.

SEGMENT 2062:
Summary: If you have found this video useful, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel. Thank you very much and I'll see you.

SEGMENT 2063:
Summary: The first ending we are going to see is id. Accepted, invented, avoided, planted, permitted, separated, protected, pretended, extended, and decorated. The infinitives of all of these verbs end in the sounds, t-t-r-d-u.

SEGMENT 2064:
Summary: We will read some more examples out loud. Now, we will read them out loud in order to get a better idea of what they mean.

SEGMENT 2065:
Summary: to practice. 

SEGMENT 2066:
Summary: The last sound is the decide. So, in this case, it is pronounced as id. Decided, invested, hunted, arrested, printed, repeated, respected, created.

SEGMENT 2067:
Summary: Hunted and decided. 

SEGMENT 2068:
Summary: One way to pronounce the id ending is tt, like the t-sat. Another way is to pronounce it as t-t.

SEGMENT 2069:
Summary: An unvoiced sound is a sound that doesn't vibrate in your throat when you say it. For example, announced, attacked, washed, watched, stopped. crossed, crashed, liked, looked, walked or fixed. Ning. ning is going well and I hope that some of you are actually starting to speak English. And that's the topic of today's episode.

SEGMENT 2070:
Summary: This episode is dedicated to how to start speaking English. I've talked about this number of times in different episodes, but today I want to dedicate this whole episode to this topic.

SEGMENT 2071:
Summary: When you feel like you can understand enough English, that you can manage a conversation with someone speaking to you in English even if your speaking level is low. Okay, at that point you should push yourself to start speaking, but don't force it and try to do it too early before you're ready.

SEGMENT 2072:
Summary: "I think that that can have some negative effects. I think that  that can be a negative effect," he said. "I don't think it's a good thing for the country to have a lot of young people in it"

SEGMENT 2073:
Summary: "Push yourself, but don't be too eager that you're just starting to speak even though you can't understand English," she says. "That would be my advice, but other people disagree with me and that's okay. This is just my personal opinion"

SEGMENT 2074:
Summary: I assume most of you aren't just surrounded by people that you can practice English with. When you do feel like you want to start speaking, how do you do this?

SEGMENT 2075:
Summary: How do you do this? Well, I always recommend using...  I always recommending using... http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-261515/How-do-you-do this-how-do you do it.html#storylink=cpy. So how do you doing this?

SEGMENT 2076:
Summary: I always recommend using this website to find native speakers who are teachers or tutors, and you can have conversations with them. Versoe I would recommend to you. I think it's great to find two or three different teachers so that you can hear different styles of speaking. For me, it's important to practice talking to men and women in French. So I have one female French tutor and two male French tutors. This forces me to use the feminine version of adjectives. So that's good practice for me. For English, that's not the case because we don't have those different genders.

SEGMENT 2077:
Summary: "I started having regular French conversations, consistent French conversations. consistently. Before that, I just listened and read in French, but recently about a month and a half ago, I think, I started havingregular French conversations"

SEGMENT 2078:
Summary: You can start with some of those teachers that I talk to on my US Conversations podcast. Maybe you liked a certain conversation that I had with a certain teacher on that podcast. And you go and start taking classes with that person because they sound like a good teacher.

SEGMENT 2079:
Summary: "I would recommend testing these teachers out and this might take a little while. You might need to take a few classes with them. So that's just an idea"

SEGMENT 2080:
Summary: It took me almost a month I think, probably like three weeks taking classes with different teachers. But now I have my teachers. So that's great.

SEGMENT 2081:
Summary: The criteria should we use when choosing a teacher. Number one, the teacher should be able to manage the conversation well. If the teacher is not doing that well, and you feel... like you have to managing the class, that's usually not a good sign.

SEGMENT 2082:
Summary: The teacher should be the one really managing the conversation. The class should just feel easy in that sense. You shouldn't feel like you have to make a ton of effort.

SEGMENT 2083:
Summary: You don't want that. 

SEGMENT 2084:
Summary: You want the class to feel easy and want the conversation to flow naturally. You want to make the class feel like it's going to be fun.

SEGMENT 2085:
Summary: I want the class to feel easy, fun. I want the conversation to feel natural. So that's really important. I can just focus on speaking and listening and not having to manage the class.

SEGMENT 2086:
Summary: You should tell them. how much correction you want and whether you want them to just write it down or whatever you want, right, and you can experiment with them. Make sure that they have a personality that you like. You probably shouldn't talk to someone that has... really the complete opposite of you. CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 2087:
Summary: This will be an important episode, an important topic for all of you, even if you already started speaking English. I think this episode will give you some tips, maybe, some advice to make sure that you're really utilizing your time.

SEGMENT 2088:
Summary: If the teacher speaks your language, it's great if you can just say a word in your native language to kind of make things easier. I honestly think that the best perfect amount of time that I've experienced, I think is 45 minutes. Sometimes it's just better to do 30 minutes. It's easier to fit in your schedule and it's cheaper. If you can take 45 minute classes, I think that's a really good length. One hour can sometimes seem a little long.

SEGMENT 2089:
Summary: Right now. 

SEGMENT 2090:
Summary: I'm trying to take three 30 minute classes a week and that's one class per week with each teacher because I have three French tutors. And something really important is that I use these teachers for conversation. I don't use them to give me a grammar lesson.

SEGMENT 2091:
Summary: 30 minutes. Okay? 

SEGMENT 2092:
Summary: "I'm specifically using these teachers so that I can practice speaking so that we can have a conversation," she says. "This is something I really believe in and I think is really important that you should use teachers for the things that you can't do by yourself"

SEGMENT 2093:
Summary: There are some really... 

SEGMENT 2094:
Summary: Good English grammar teachers on YouTube that are completely free. good English grammar teacher on YouTube.  Free grammar lessons on YouTube for English grammar.

SEGMENT 2095:
Summary: You can't really have conversations by yourself or at least it's not easy to do that. And so use teachers for conversations. That's what they're perfect for. You can do this on your own no problem.

SEGMENT 2096:
Summary: You should talk about things that are interesting for you. Have conversations that you would normally have with people in your language. This will also help you just feel motivated to take classes. It will be like talking to a friend sometimes and I've made friends with Some of my teachers and some of my students.

SEGMENT 2097:
Summary: We'll help you with your speaking practice. We'll also help you feel more motivated. in the best way possible when you speak English.

SEGMENT 2098:
Summary: I think that you'll really enjoy this episode, and I hope that it's helpful for you. Remember that you can use my advanced podcast episodes to start listening to real English spoken fast. In those episodes, I speak at normal speed.

SEGMENT 2099:
Summary:  preparation in advance. to actually take consistent conversation classes. So talk about things that are interesting for you. I don't think you always need to do this. for some of your classes and then maybe other classes.

SEGMENT 2100:
Summary: "I think I was able to pay more attention to the video and do the new vocabulary in that video. And I kind of prepared some of the vocabulary phrases in my mind for the conversation" "You can try to use those phrases and that kind of reinforces those phrases, those words. So that's something you can try as well," he says.

SEGMENT 2101:
Summary: I think it's good to have a translator open on your computer when you're having these classes so you can look up words and you you take a really long time to open up a translator or search for it. If the teacher speaks your native language I think you can say things in your own language if you need to I'm not against that I do that all the time. It just kind of speeds things up in other words it Rd in your language help you say it in English. Use this guide to help you learn how to say a word in your own language.

SEGMENT 2102:
Summary: "I like when teachers write corrections down written form," she says. "When class is over, I go back and look at the corrections written down"

SEGMENT 2103:
Summary: "I don't just end the class and go do something else. I don't," he says. "I'm a teacher. I'm a person. I have a job to do"

SEGMENT 2104:
Summary: "I review those corrections again like five minutes before the class. I actually view the corrections. And I remember what I was saying when I made each of these mistakes," she said.

SEGMENT 2105:
Summary: description below this episode. 

SEGMENT 2106:
Summary: You can also sign up for my US Conversations Podcast. In that podcast, I talked to people from all around the United States. We talked about different topics such as their city or their state.

SEGMENT 2107:
Summary: "These corrections are things that I will probably say in multiple classes. So I review these corrections, I see what I need to say differently, and then in the next class I can actually say it the right way," she said.

SEGMENT 2108:
Summary: And now... 

SEGMENT 2109:
Summary: The key is to just start and understand the other person to start to build. the connection with them. Just start to correct some of your mistakes and you're going to develop muscle memory as you continue to speak. You just have to start and speak consistently, speak frequently, right? And it's going to feel really good in the future when you start to have better conversations or fluent conversations. So if you're ready, start today, use these tips. that I just gave you.

SEGMENT 2110:
Summary: I hope that all of these tips were helpful for you. I hope that you feel motivated to start speaking English if you're ready. If you're not ready, then just keep these things in mind and in the future when you are ready, you can come back and listen to this episode again and maybe check out those US conversations episode.

SEGMENT 2111:
Summary: You can sign up for the weekly Newsquiz to test your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN.com. You can also practice listening to two people talking, not just one person talking to you.

SEGMENT 2112:
Summary: "I think it's important to start when you feel... ready to start," she says. "Are your ears ready? You know what time it is. It's listening time"

SEGMENT 2113:
Summary: "Sometimes people don't want to but it's because they're nervous or they haven't done it before. That's different," she says.

SEGMENT 2114:
Summary: I think you should kind of push yourself to start even if you don't want to because you feel nervous. But in reality, you already understand English really well, should start. I'm talking about when you just don't have a good enough comprehension to feel like you can even have a conversation with someone. So if that's your case, then my advice is to not start before you feel like I can manage.

SEGMENT 2115:
Summary: This week I have been ill with a cold, so I thought that it would be a good opportunity to talk about illnesses in English. I was told to keep hydrated by drinking plenty of fluids like water and to eat hot foods like a chicken broth or some soup. proper treatment to heal correctly. If it is a bad spray you might be advised to wear a cast to stop you from moving it.

SEGMENT 2116:
Summary: The healing process can take up to six weeks for the body to recover from an injury. The process can also take as long as a year for some people.

SEGMENT 2117:
Summary: In the UK supermarkets and other shops are allowed to sell basic medicine like ibuprofen, pericetamol, cough mixtures, aliti tablets etc. In many other places in the world you can only buy medicine at the chemist. You're not allowed to buy more than two packets at a time. The amount per item is based on the weight of the item and the amount of time it took to make the item. For more information on how to order your items, visit www.walmart.com/walmart-items.

SEGMENT 2118:
Summary: People who are over 60 don't have to pay for prescriptions in this country. This is extremely beneficial for older people who have a lot of health problems. Imagine having to take 10 types of medicine that would be more than £90 a month.

SEGMENT 2119:
Summary: So that means that you've... 

SEGMENT 2120:
Summary: If you have an inhaler, if you have asthma, then you would pay 9 pounds for that inhaler. You wouldn't pay that for a packet of paracetamol.

SEGMENT 2121:
Summary: What do you think about this? Do you think that it is a fair way of doing it? Please share your thoughts in the comments below.

SEGMENT 2122:
Summary: How does it work in your country? Let me know in the comment section. I know that it is quite controversial, especially   in the UK.

SEGMENT 2123:
Summary: When you have a cold or the flu, which is more serious, you might have a headache. Some people also have a fever or a high temperature. It's important to have the thermometer at home to check your temperature and see... whether you have fever or not.

SEGMENT 2124:
Summary: You might wonder how we 

SEGMENT 2125:
Summary: When you have a cold you might have an earache which is pain in your ears. If your teeth are growing or you have an infection you might suffer from toothache. If you feel like you might need a tooth extracted or you need a filling, you must go to the dentist to have it checked out.

SEGMENT 2126:
Summary: If you spend too much time in the sun, you could suffer from some burn. A rash which is usually red might appear on your skin. People usually underestimate the skin damage that the sun rays can cause.

SEGMENT 2127:
Summary: If you have an accident while walking or running around and you bump your leg or head on a hard object you might get a bruise. Bruises can be red, purple, blue or black. Children normally get a lot of bruises because when they are running around in the playground at school and they fall over or they bump their head on something then they get bruises.

SEGMENT 2128:
Summary: Elephant English Podcast. Today we're going to be talking about adopting pets. The first question is, how many pets do you think we have adopted over the years?

SEGMENT 2129:
Summary: Anything that you wouldn't normally call a pet like a lizard or a snake or a spider, anything that isn't furry. would get lonely. How they look just puts me off. What about, for example, Ernie Blanc?

SEGMENT 2130:
Summary: I wouldn't like handling them. I would have to have a fluffy pet. But we've had a lot of turtles and terrapins. Yeah, so they were just like there in the garden.

SEGMENT 2131:
Summary: All right. I'm not like a dot. 

SEGMENT 2132:
Summary: I think that people like to adopt a pet because they are rescuing them from an otherwise boring life in a shelter. So by adopting a pet, you are giving them a good home that they would enjoy.

SEGMENT 2133:
Summary: When you adopt a pet, you're also giving another space for another dog to be adopted. Without dog, if we hadn't adopted that dog, there wouldn't have been space to save another dog in the dog shelter because they only have a limited amount of dogs that they can keep. You're saving the life of two dogs.

SEGMENT 2134:
Summary: That's true. That's true. Bye. 

SEGMENT 2135:
Summary: It is true that there are some difficulties when you try to adopt a dog. I have a lot of friends that live in a flat, for example, and the animal shelters have come to look at their house to see if it is suitable for a dog and their applications have been... rejected. Before they used to give the pets away at theirs. So if you went to this there and you played a game, your prize was a fish or a terrapin. Then when those people got home they realised that it was a big problem.

SEGMENT 2136:
Summary: I remember we used to have a terrapin and somebody won him out of there and we kept him for about was it 12 years? Yes, yeah, about 12 years. that's forever. If somebody had won the terrapins out ofthere, they would have had to keep him for all of those years.

SEGMENT 2137:
Summary: "I think it's quite irresponsible of the  government," he said. "It's a very dangerous time for the country. So I think it is quite irresponsible"

SEGMENT 2138:
Summary: Sometimes the children were too young to own the pet or to take care of the pet. I think luckily now it's been banned so nowadays you can't win the terrapin or fish of that. Yeah, that's very good.

SEGMENT 2139:
Summary: One morning she appeared in the garden. We weren't going to keep her but... then she decided she would live with us. Cat's a very independent and suspended the distance and stayed.

SEGMENT 2140:
Summary: With a cat they're very independent and you don't have to take them for walks. With a dog gives you more companionship and a dog loves you more and you get good exercise taking the dog for the walk.

SEGMENT 2141:
Summary: Sometimes I really think she does love me. Sometimes I really do think she loves me. I love her so much. She loves me so much, too.

SEGMENT 2142:
Summary: Cats only think that you will feed them. They don't love you from their heart. Dog loves you because you can see how they look at you. They love you. But it is a lot easier to have a cat.

SEGMENT 2143:
Summary: Some people have a house rabbit and they think that's the best pet. Maybe if you haven't got so much time it doesn't need as much love and attention as a dog. I think if you left a dog on its own the dog misses you a lot.

SEGMENT 2144:
Summary: There are so many things that you can choose from on a menu at a cafe. I was out for the day in a city near me and I didn't know where to go for lunch so I looked on Google and searched for cafes.

SEGMENT 2145:
Summary: nearly. 

SEGMENT 2146:
Summary: I didn't know where to choose because they all seem so similar so I took a look at the reviews. There was one cafe that stood out because it was 4.7 stars and I had 113 reviews. One of the comments was that it was quite a mess. If I went again I would definitely eat it outside in a park or on a bench.

SEGMENT 2147:
Summary: The cafe is not reliable, so you might go to the cafe one day and it's excellent and you go back another day  and it isn't very good. means that it's not really reliable.

SEGMENT 2148:
Summary: You can use this about your mobile phone, for example. My mobile phone is quite hit and miss, sometimes it works and other times it doesn't.

SEGMENT 2149:
Summary: "Now that I'm back home, I'm taking a look at the negative comments because they're usually quite funny," he said. "I'm usually quite amused by them," he added. "It's a good way to start the day."

SEGMENT 2150:
Summary: When I read negative comments or reviews I take it with a pinch of salt. People are more likely to leave a negative review than a positive review. If you think about it, you might have posted more negative reviews than positive. When you've had a press... experience you don't usually take the time to write a positive review. In the comments section I'd like you to tell me when was the time that you've written a negative review?

SEGMENT 2151:
Summary: It doesn't just have to be a negative review of a cafe. It can be at the cafe, a museum, any type of place.

SEGMENT 2152:
Summary: If you have enjoyed this video 

SEGMENT 2153:
Summary: The review said that it was a cheap and cheap or cafe. Cheap and cheerful is a British expression and it means that it's simple and inexpensive. So it doesn't cost much but it serves its purpose.

SEGMENT 2154:
Summary: People even said that it's their go-to pay. for a delicious breakfast. They also said that they could clearly see that it was a popular place because the queue was very long.

SEGMENT 2155:
Summary: The food is freshly cooked and it's quite tasty. People were actually impressed with the quality in food, considering that the prices are quite low. The service was fast and friendly, and it was clean inside and out. These hot sandwiches cost three if they, which is quite a good price. And if you wanted a hot beverage with one of your hot sandwiches, you could choose from tea, coffee, hot chocolate or minestrone soup.

SEGMENT 2156:
Summary: from walking around or city. 

SEGMENT 2157:
Summary: I think that if you're paying £4 for a cup of tea and hot sandwich you can't expect much more. It wasn't the best food that I've ever tried but it did the job. Many people love going shopping for different reasons. People usually make the most... of the sales to stock up on their favourite products. Stock up on means to buy a large quantity of items to use later on. Beauty and personal care products are sold during sales.

SEGMENT 2158:
Summary: "Now we're going to see some praise of the  team," says CNN's Tom Foreman. "We've been through a lot of tough times in the last few years. Now we're just going to have a little fun with it."

SEGMENT 2159:
Summary: To sell out means to sell all of this ply that a shop has of something. It means that there weren't any left. To try on means to put on a piece of clothing to see whether it fits.

SEGMENT 2160:
Summary: Tried on the shoes, but they weren't my size. tried on the clothes, but there were too many of them. tried to find the shoes in my size, and they were too big.

SEGMENT 2161:
Summary: To shop around means to go to different shops and compare prices. To take something back means to return an item to the shop where you bought it. To queue up or to line up means to wait in a queue or a line behind other people.

SEGMENT 2162:
Summary: To pick out means to choose an item from many other items to buy it. To splash out on something means to spend a lot of money on something. Shopping can be a social event as well. You might ask a friend or a family member to come along with you to ask for their opinion. It's never too late to start a new project.

SEGMENT 2163:
Summary: When the sales are on people feel like they have a good opportunity to save money. It also makes shopping more exciting because it feels like a treasure hunt. However, it's important to be careful with sales because sometimes things on sale aren't what you really need.

SEGMENT 2164:
Summary: It's easy to go... and buy things when you see them just because they're cheap, when we don't really need them and hadn't planned on buying them. So sales sometimes have the opposite effect. It can also trick us into...

SEGMENT 2165:
Summary: The top selling items during sales are clothing and accessories. Electronics are another popular category during sales. A lot of people like to buy smartphones, televisions, laptops and other small gadgets.  r. r.    r.r. r   R.R. r r. R. r r  r  r

SEGMENT 2166:
Summary: I don't mind going on a plane and I'm not scared of it. But what I don't like about flying is the fact that you have to get to the airport about two hours before and go to security. I think that that is the worst part about flying.

SEGMENT 2167:
Summary: The UK and the European Union are set to take away the measures, it has been claimed. The measures were designed to stop the spread of HIV and AIDS.

SEGMENT 2168:
Summary: Sometimes I take my tablets on airplane and download different episodes of my favorite series. But I don't always do this because it depends on how long the flight is. I assume that flight attendants like flying, if not, you wouldn't apply for this job. I think that it's a very demanding job. It's good for your body as well and of course on your mental health. It's also good for you to take care of your mental and physical health.

SEGMENT 2169:
Summary: When pigs fly is an expression that we use to say that something is not going to happen. So for example if somebody says I'm going to clean the garage tomorrow and the other person says Okay. the garage when pick spline.

SEGMENT 2170:
Summary: "So basically they're saying that they will never do it. So basically they will not do it," he said. "That's the way it's going to be."

SEGMENT 2171:
Summary: A fly on the wall is an expression that we use when somebody is secretly listening or looking at something when they shouldn't be. To send something flying means to hit something and you hit it into the air by accident. To pass with flying colours means to do something very easily.

SEGMENT 2172:
Summary: I have read that you won't have to take your electronics out of your luggage. You won't need to separate liquids and keep them in smaller containers.

SEGMENT 2173:
Summary: "I'm really excited about this and hopefully it will be implemented soon," she said. "It's a great idea and I'm really looking forward to it"

SEGMENT 2174:
Summary: I prefer taking a train because you don't have to be at the train station one or two hours before. You can just turn up 10 minutes before, but it's not the same as traveling by plane. It would take such a long time to travel from England to the US, for example.

SEGMENT 2175:
Summary: "It's just a much more comfortable experience. Don't... have to keep the liquid separate, go through security," she says. "I often get headaches from flying as well so it's nice to feel okay"

SEGMENT 2176:
Summary: ruins that day for me. 

SEGMENT 2177:
Summary: Do you think flying has got worse or better over the years? Well, it's quite hard to answer this question because obviously, flying has become a lot cheaper and a lot more accessible to a lot of people. But I normally travel with budget airlines, which are cheaper airlines.

SEGMENT 2178:
Summary: In the past I used to pay a lot more for the flights, whereas now you could travel to Spain for about 30 euros. It's often cheaper to travel abroad to Europe from England than it is to travel within the country because train prices are so expensive. I always take a book, a cushion just in case I want to fall asleep and my headphones.

SEGMENT 2179:
Summary: In today's video we're going to talk about celebrities. I'd say a celebrity is a famous person, especially in entertainment and sports. Why do you think some people are obsessed with celebrities?

SEGMENT 2180:
Summary: I think... 

SEGMENT 2181:
Summary: Some people are obsessed with celebrities because they see something in them that they would like to have. Some people can use this session in a positive way and become inspired and motivated.

SEGMENT 2182:
Summary: The next question is, which celebrity would you invite to your birthday party? Who would you like to see at your party? Share your thoughts in the comments below.

SEGMENT 2183:
Summary: I think. 

SEGMENT 2184:
Summary: I would make a twilight thing party with vampires and wars because I know that he actually hated twilight even though I love it. I think that he's a good actor and I grew up a friend as well.

SEGMENT 2185:
Summary: If I became an important celebrity, like a well-known celebrity, then I would miss just going for a walk or going to the shop without people following me or recognising me. I think you're normally into this when you're a teenager and you're really obsessed with the band or a singer or a celebrity. As you get older you're more focused on your own life so you are losing trust.

SEGMENT 2186:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 2187:
Summary: There are a lot of celebrities in England that are famous in this country. But if they went to a New America or any other country, they wouldn't be recognised by the people there. I think that's the best type of celebrity to be. If your famous worldwide like to your sweet do a leeper than everybody would recognize you. Celebrities are the ideal beauty success and lifestyle. that people are interested in. Some of them have giant houses, amazing cars, beautiful skin, hair and people even develop strong bonds with celebrities, even though those people don't even know you exist. When you're famous, people expect you to always be well dressed, looking perfect with the perfect hair, makeup and sometimes it feels like they can't have a... bad day. I say there is also difficult to know who your real friends are. when you're a celebrity and to know which of your relationships are genuine. I imagine that being famous can affect your mental health negatively. The lack of privacy as well can lead to stress, anxiety and depression. The majority of responden to a survey that was carried out in the United States. Only 55% of respondents said they would tell their partner or their parents. 44% said they wouldn't tell them, but I don't think that this is very realistic. I think that if you did win the lottery, then you would tell them.

SEGMENT 2188:
Summary: It's okay to tell your family or your partner, but it's not a good idea to post anything about it on social media. You should take your time, go slow and think about each move carefully.

SEGMENT 2189:
Summary: If you're not sure how to claim your prize, you will... find the instructions on the lottery ticket and on the ticket agency's website. I've read that you've got to make several photo copies of the front and the back of the ticket and to deposit the original lottery ticket in a safety deposit box in a bank so that you don't lose it. Then you can hire a lawyer and a financial advisor because when you win

SEGMENT 2190:
Summary: You can also choose where to take annual payments or a lump sum. Annual payments means that they will pay you every year whereas the lump sum means that you will have all of the money in your bank.

SEGMENT 2191:
Summary: It says that you should consider not quitting your job so that you can maintain a normal life. It says you could try working part-time or taking a few months or years off.

SEGMENT 2192:
Summary: If you want one million then I think that you wouldn't. quit your job. I don't think you would want to spend eight hours at work per day knowing that you've got enough money to survive. People always say that you can make more money but you can never make more time.

SEGMENT 2193:
Summary: Women are twice as likely to break up with their partner then men if they won lottery. Only 52% said that they were party and celebrate with family and friends. 29% of people said they would pay off existing debt.

SEGMENT 2194:
Summary: I expected more people to pay off their debt first. Then the next thing that people would do is to put money aside to take care of their friends and family. I think that I would just give money to them. I wouldn't control it myself because I would have enough things to think about. 70% of lotto winners spend or lose all that money in five years or less. It's important to have a lawyer and financial advisor if you win the lottery.

SEGMENT 2195:
Summary: YouTube is the most popular website in the world. Here's how to create a YouTube channel. If you're listening to this, you are probably using YouTube. If not, somebody has stolen my video.

SEGMENT 2196:
Summary: The first thing that you have to do is think about what type of content you would like to make. For example, if you don't know how to speak Chinese, you can't make videos teaching Chinese. If you choose a niche that you enjoy, then the process of making videos will be a lot more enjoyable. There are also other options like end screens. subtitles and cards. Cards divide your video into sections. Like for example if you have made five videos about cookies then you could create a cookies playlist and then a separate section for five types of pizza that you have created.

SEGMENT 2197:
Summary: You don't have to divide your video into cards. I think that in some videos it makes sense to, especially when it's a tutorial. If you're just talking in a video, I don't think you really need to. And then the subtitle are created automatically by YouTube. I don't think that I will ever get used to it. It would be hard to spend so many hours creating videos for people to watch because I wouldn't enjoy it. If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up because interaction is good for our YouTube channel because it promotes your videos more.

SEGMENT 2198:
Summary: The first thousand subscribers are the most difficult to achieve. You've got to think about what you are going to show your viewers. parts of your own life like vlogs. Then you have to learn the basics. You have to learn about video editing and it might be a good idea to buy a good microphone. and a good camera.  You have to learning about video edited and it may be aGood idea to buying a good microphones and agood camera.

SEGMENT 2199:
Summary: There are a lot of free resources and tutorials online to learn from, especially for video and audio editing. One of the important things on YouTube is to be consistent. That could be once a month or once a week. The algorithm is based on a set of algorithms that can be applied to any situation. The algorithm can be used to predict the outcome of events in the future.

SEGMENT 2200:
Summary: Key words are basically words that people search for, like for example, English podcasts or English listening, all of these were words that you might type in the search bar to look for.

SEGMENT 2201:
Summary: Doctors are the people who work at hospitals, clinics or medical centers. Models often wear fashionable clothes which are made by hand by tailors. There are different types of drivers like taxi drivers or train drivers.

SEGMENT 2202:
Summary: If you have problems with the law, you might be arrested by a police officer. Lawyer is... the person who will defend you. If you go to court, a judge will decide if you are innocent or not.

SEGMENT 2203:
Summary: Hairdresses were at hair salon. They caught people's hair. The people who caught men's hair and their beards are called b-

SEGMENT 2204:
Summary: Gardeners are the people who look after flowers and plants. Farmers work on farms, usually with animals like chickens, pigs, cows, or sheep. Fishermen normally work on boats.

SEGMENT 2205:
Summary: If you have enjoyed the... or injured. 

SEGMENT 2206:
Summary: If you have a problem with your teeth, you go to the dentist where dentists work. However, if you have an issue with your tooth, you can go to a different dentist.

SEGMENT 2207:
Summary: People buy meat from butchers who work at our butchers. Restaurants get their bread, cakes and pastries from a bakery. Waiters, waitresses or servers, the neutral form for both men and women, also work at restaurants and cafes. Carpenters can make wooden chairs, tables and other types of furniture. Painters paint your walls and plumbers install the bath and and the toilets.

SEGMENT 2208:
Summary: News readers will tell you what is happening in the world. Actors or actresses are the people who act in movies, series or plays. Photographers who take photos can work with models.

SEGMENT 2209:
Summary: In today's video we are going to be seeing ten cat idioms and expressions. The first one is let the cat out of the bag, which means to reveal a secret.

SEGMENT 2210:
Summary: For example, what's the matter today? 

SEGMENT 2211:
Summary: Cat got your tongue. Catten mouse, when one person confuses or deceives the other to control other animal. Curiosity killed the cat. Be the cat's whiskers, which means to be important and superior, or to feel like you are.

SEGMENT 2212:
Summary: Be a copycat is a childish expression, so children would normally use this. It means to be a person who copies someone else. It's a term of endearment for children.

SEGMENT 2213:
Summary: I bought that jacket a week ago and now you have one the same. You're such a copycat. Cat fight. A cat.

SEGMENT 2214:
Summary: A cat has nine lives, which means to get out of a difficult or dangerous situation without getting hurt or dying, like cats do. For example, Poppy fell off a yesterday so she only has eight lives left.

SEGMENT 2215:
Summary: Call is a day means to finish working for the day. Look what the cat dragged in is used to announce the arrival of someone that you dislike or disapprove of. I've seen better days means that the hotel used to be in good condition, but now it isn't.

SEGMENT 2216:
Summary: will not last much longer. 

SEGMENT 2217:
Summary: With the way he behaves at work, I say his days are numbered. So that means that you think that he won't stay in the company a lot longer because he will be fired.

SEGMENT 2218:
Summary: Every dog has its day, which means that everyone will have success or good luck. at some point in their life. Every dog has their day, and every dog will have their day.

SEGMENT 2219:
Summary: Don't worry if you didn't get that job. For example, don't worry about getting that job even if you don't get it.

SEGMENT 2220:
Summary: Every dog has its day. 

SEGMENT 2221:
Summary: In this day and age, which means now or at the present time. So it means that in some point in the future you will be successful or be lucky.

SEGMENT 2222:
Summary: In the cold light of day, we use this to talk about when you have had time to consider a situation objectively after an emotional experience. For example, I cannot believe that people are racist. in this day and age.

SEGMENT 2223:
Summary: Daylight robbery. 

SEGMENT 2224:
Summary: Carpe Diem means to seize the day or make the most of the present moment. This means that something is very expensive or has an unfair pricing. For example, charging £10 for coffee is daylight robbery.

SEGMENT 2225:
Summary: computers. 

SEGMENT 2226:
Summary: This is an American expression and it means Wednesday which is the midpoint of the work week. For example, we only have two more days to go. It's like saying in the past but it's something that you are remembering.

SEGMENT 2227:
Summary: Happy Humpday. 

SEGMENT 2228:
Summary: The light of day which means to appear... be published or made available to the public. which means something that happens regularly over a long period of time. For example, I have to do the same boring paperwork day in day out.

SEGMENT 2229:
Summary: Make a day of it means to make an activity last a whole day, not just some hours. Save the day means to provide a solution to a difficult problem or disaster.

SEGMENT 2230:
Summary: His transformation in the company has been like night and day. For example, I lost my phone, had an on and received complaints at work. It's just one of those days. Night and day can also mean all the time.

SEGMENT 2231:
Summary: Learn some phrasal verbs related to sports. These are numbered, which means someone or something. At the end we're going to see the definitions and some examples.

SEGMENT 2232:
Summary: A few months ago I thought about taking up running. I knew that some of my friends liked to go running, so I asked them how often I needed to work out. They gave me a few tips and reminded me of importance of warming up before going for a run.

SEGMENT 2233:
Summary: Find your local park run website and find your closest local event. Find out how to sign up for a park run by clicking here. Click here for more information about park runs in the UK.

SEGMENT 2234:
Summary: To warm up means to prepare your body to do exercise by doing gentle movements. It's always important to warm up before you do exercise. To cool down means to do gentle exercise.

SEGMENT 2235:
Summary: Kickoff means to start a game or event. For example, a football match kicks off at... 9 o'clock. The word is also used to refer to the start of a day.

SEGMENT 2236:
Summary: To cheer on means to encourage someone to do something well, normally by shouting. At the race, the competitors family members were cheering them on. For example, Manchester United will take on Tottenham next weekend.

SEGMENT 2237:
Summary: To pull ahead means to take the lead in a race or a sports competition. The drop out means to stop participating. To catch up is to read the same level as another person.

SEGMENT 2238:
Summary: "To give up is to stop trying. I tried to win but in the end I just gave," he said. "I just gave up. I just stopped trying"

SEGMENT 2239:
Summary: I'm trying to work off the weight that I gained at Christmas. I have recently taken up jogging and painting. To work off means to get rid of something through exercise, is normally stress or weight.

SEGMENT 2240:
Summary: I was going to play in the match but I decided to sit it out in the end. Manchester City knocked Chelsea out of a competition. To sit out means to no longer participate in an activity.

SEGMENT 2241:
Summary: The turnout means to participate or attend an event. The turnout the event was massive. There were so many people there. The event was held at the National Museum of American History.

SEGMENT 2242:
Summary: To blow away means to beat someone easily. To throw in means to add something extra. You might want to throw in some extra hours if you want to be the best.

SEGMENT 2243:
Summary: I'm rooting for Manchester City this season. To root for means to support someone. I want City to do well this season and win the Premier League.

SEGMENT 2244:
Summary: To bulk up means to gain muscle through exercise and by changing your diet. I'm trying to bulk up these months to be stronger for the following season.

SEGMENT 2245:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Please submit your best shots for next week's gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 2246:
Summary: I decided to kick off my first run ever. One of my friends decided to come to cheer me on. She started jogging a few years ago and has always encouraged me to do more sport.

SEGMENT 2247:
Summary: After a few laps around the park, I started to feel a bit tired and I thought that I would have to give up, but my friend kept encouraging me. She told me that I couldn't drop out now because there were only three minutes left. I don't know why I was tired. After the run, we cooled down and had a slow walk all around the Park.

SEGMENT 2248:
Summary: "It definitely... felt that I had worked off some stress. The club meets up on Saturday mornings so you have to throw in some extra effort"

SEGMENT 2249:
Summary: it. 

SEGMENT 2250:
Summary: There were about 30 people in the running club. It was good because everybody could go at their own pace. People that were running at the front had obviously been running for some time.  e people who walked it.  People who have walked it, and those who have followed them. People who've walked it and people who have stood on it.

SEGMENT 2251:
Summary: If you're interested in joining one of these runs, you can go on to the next page. There you can find out more about the runs and how to get involved.

SEGMENT 2252:
Summary: Last weekend I decided to buy a new laptop because my old one had stopped working. I had to log in with my email address and come up with a new password. After I had chosen my new password I typed it in.

SEGMENT 2253:
Summary: The screen is very large, so I don't have to keep zooming in all the time. On my old laptop, I had to zoom in and zoom out to see small text. I thought that the battery would be charged when I bought this new laptop, but it wasn't. Then, when I was logged in and I... the internet, there were a lot of adverts.

SEGMENT 2254:
Summary: The point of having a laptop is for you to be able to use the laptop on the sofa and not have it charging all the time. The issue that I had with my battery has also been solved because the laptop runs out of battery after about 6 hours.

SEGMENT 2255:
Summary: You don't do many things on a laptop without using the internet. I even use the internet now to write on a document. If you go online and use a Google document it saves automatically and all of your files are backed up.

SEGMENT 2256:
Summary: If you have enjoyed this video please give it thumbs up and subscribe. Thank you and I'll see you in the next one. Back to Mail Online home. back to the page you came from.

SEGMENT 2257:
Summary: With my new computer I wanted to reduce the amount of files that I have on it. I think that it's easy to fill up a new laptop with so many pictures and documents that you download off of the internet. With my old laptop I couldn't scroll through the content easily or smoothly. It was difficult to scroll up and scroll down so I had to use an external mouse. This wasn't very comfortable because in the end you use a laptop because you don't want to be set up at table. I had to update some of the apps and the programs, even though their computer was new. What I didn't like about my new laptop was that I had to updates some of my apps and programs. You can't find that document without having your laptop or computer. phone.

SEGMENT 2258:
Summary: A few weeks ago I decided to go to Barcelona for a city break. I set out on Friday afternoon because my flight was in the evening. I wanted to catch a taxi to the airport so I called up the taxi company. pick me up about 20 minutes later. I took off from Manchester Airport which is my closest airport. We flew over where I actually live so I could see my house from the plane. The first time that I went, I couldn't get a good look at it because there were so many people, it was packed. After that, I knew my journey was coming to an end and I looked back on all of the things that I had done in those two days. It's funny when you're on holiday, it feels like you can do so many things in 48 hours.

SEGMENT 2259:
Summary: I was quite sad to set off for home because I felt like I could have stayed a few more days. But I couldn't wait to get home to share about it with my friends and family. It's always nice to get away for the weekend or for a few weeks, especially from the British weather, which isn't very nice.

SEGMENT 2260:
Summary: If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel. Thank you very much and I'll see you in the next video.

SEGMENT 2261:
Summary: The bus only cost three euros whereas a taxi would cost about 20. So I took out my phone to look at Google Maps and realised that I could catch a bus to my hotel and that worked out a lot cheaper.

SEGMENT 2262:
Summary: When I travel, I usually only book Bed and Breakfast, which includes a couple of hours. accommodation and breakfast in the morning, but it doesn't include lunch or dinner. I find that when I travel and I book full board or all inclusive, I don't spend so much time outside the hotel, so my idea was to explore Barcelona. The guide pointed out quite a lot of interesting facts about the city. I got off at almost every stop and it was a great idea. I only had to go to the bus stop where I had got off and wait for 10 minutes. Locals were friendly and told me which was the best food to eat on the menus. During the trip I ran into locals who were quite friendly.  you're sat in it for most of the time.

SEGMENT 2263:
Summary: I tried out the 

SEGMENT 2264:
Summary: There are so many museums, parks and hidden gems in Barcelona. Spanish food is the best in the world and I would say it's in the top three.

SEGMENT 2265:
Summary: This video is the first in a series about idioms and expressions in English. In this video we are going to learn how to use these expressions about giving and receiving advice.

SEGMENT 2266:
Summary: You normally say this when you don't want to know all the details and everything that happened. It's quite rude to say it, so I wouldn't recommend saying it to people that you're not friends with. Another way they might react is by saying, spare me the details.

SEGMENT 2267:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 2268:
Summary: It means can you check it and give me some advice on it? In another context, if you have booked to go on holiday with someone and you want to check that the time of the flight is okay, you can call your friend and run it by... them to make sure that is correct. And lastly, another expression that I like is to not take no for an answer. It means that someone is not going to accept

SEGMENT 2269:
Summary: I think that in my day to day life I use the expression is a good So maybe you're giving someone a piece of advice that they don't want to hear. Or, I hate to say this. but that dress doesn't look very good on you.

SEGMENT 2270:
Summary: Okay, let's move on to the next one. 

SEGMENT 2271:
Summary: If somebody is asking for advice, you can say, if I were you, I would go to you. So you're saying that if you were that person, that is what you would do.

SEGMENT 2272:
Summary: If you go up to someone to offer them some advice then you would normally say, I've been meaning to talk to you. Or if I were in your shoes I would go to university and get a job.

SEGMENT 2273:
Summary: but they haven't had the chance to. 

SEGMENT 2274:
Summary: I've been meaning to talk to you about the argument you had with your girlfriend. Is everything all right? I want to make sure you're okay.

SEGMENT 2275:
Summary: A very direct way to tell someone that you want to offer them some advice is by saying let me give you some free advice. Be careful with the word advice, because a lot of people say, are advised or are advised, but the word Advice is uncountable. It means that they are disappointed that they didn't do it earlier. So they might say it's a pity I didn't ask for advice before. It's a shame that Ididn't ask you. advice earlier.

SEGMENT 2276:
Summary: It means that they are glad that they asked you for advice. The opposite would be, it's a good job that, so for example, is aGood job that I ask you for Advice. It means that I am relieved.

SEGMENT 2277:
Summary: Watching TV shows and movies in English can help you to learn vocabulary and to improve your comprehension. The more hours you are immersed in a language, the more you are going to learn easier so you will probably understand it better.

SEGMENT 2278:
Summary: "I wasn't even born when it was filmed. So if you don't understand cultural references, I don't think it matters," he says. Normally cultural references are used for jokes.

SEGMENT 2279:
Summary: When I was learning another language and I watched a series to improve my level in that language, I always kept a notebook next to me. Some people ask if it's a good idea to rewatch episode or whether they should always watch something new. I think that this depends on each person and their patients. If you have a lot of patients and you don't mind watching, you can watch the series. If you like watching the same episode over and over, then that's fine if it for you then is good. If you don't, then you probably don't need to watch it at all.

SEGMENT 2280:
Summary: "I used to play a few episodes and watch them and then later on while I was cleaning or doing something else I used to leave the episodes playing in the background so I could listen to what they were saying," he says.

SEGMENT 2281:
Summary: I have a British accent but the series that I normally watch are within American accent because most of the films are American aren't they? If you are starting to learn English, then start with the accent that is the easiest for you. I always recommend sitcoms. sitcoms are comedy shows like friends, how I met your mother or the big fan theory. that you enjoy normally and then watch it in English. I think that they are a good way to learn the language because it's day-to-day life.

SEGMENT 2282:
Summary: So... 

SEGMENT 2283:
Summary: The. vocabulary that they use is more day-to-day, daily life vocabulary. But if you chose a series. which was about a hospital or doctors, then the vocabulary. that they used is much more difficult and maybe even I wouldn't understand the words that they are saying.

SEGMENT 2284:
Summary: The actress says she always recommends putting the subtitles in English if you are learning English. If you don't understand anything even with the subt, maybe the series is too difficult, she says. This is the 151st episode of the Listening Time Podcast. Connor talks about his experience learning Italian. He also gives a recap of his Spanish challenge.

SEGMENT 2285:
Summary: "I wanted to simulate this situation of English speaker or Spanish. So I decided to do Italian and my goal was to show people what they can possibly do during the first 100 days of learning Spanish or another language"

SEGMENT 2286:
Summary: "I am a language learner who focuses on input. That is listening and reading. So my approach was very input-based in order to learn a lot of words and phrases," she says.

SEGMENT 2287:
Summary: "I wanted to get a feel for the language by using one of these beginner courses, but it was more just to listen to the dialogues again. So I had that and I also did a lot of reading," she says. I used the basic mini stories they call them. are available for the different languages. asy.  So I used the Basic Mini Stories they call it.

SEGMENT 2288:
Summary: I read through all of these stories. I saved the new words that I didn't know. I repeated these stories multiple times. I listened to them because they also have audio for those stories.

SEGMENT 2289:
Summary: I'm not interested in that. 

SEGMENT 2290:
Summary: "I just used their videos that were designed more for listening comprehension. So they were talking about different topics and I listened and... peded, used the subtitles sometimes, sometimes"

SEGMENT 2291:
Summary: No. 

SEGMENT 2292:
Summary: CNN's Richard Quest is doing a 100-day challenge to learn Italian. Quest used different types of repetition to get the best results. Quest: "I don't think there's only one way to use repetition" There are ways that you can benefit from repetition and using the subtitles or the transcript like with this podcast. Use the weekly Newsquiz to test your knowledge of stories you saw on CNN.

SEGMENT 2293:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 2294:
Summary: Some of you might prefer to listen the first time without the transcript. That's one way that I think is really good for repetition with this type of content. But there are different preferences and I think they're all beneficial in their own ways.

SEGMENT 2295:
Summary: So I did. 

SEGMENT 2296:
Summary: I only did 10 minutes of grammar per day for the first 50 days. I didn't even do it for the full 100 days. And I even listened to some conversations between two Italian people. So I did a lot of input as you can see.

SEGMENT 2297:
Summary: "I know that many people feel like they need grammar. Even though they probably don't really need to focus that much on grammar," she says. "I just spent 10 minutes on a grammar website."

SEGMENT 2298:
Summary: 10 minutes was... max. 

SEGMENT 2299:
Summary: "I didn't want to spend any more time on grammar because it wasn't helpful. It was barely helpful at all to be honest," he says. "I'm not saying that you shouldn't do grammar, but I think what I'm trying to say is don't spend a lot of time on Grammar" "I was gonna make a YouTube video about this but honestly I don't really feel like doing that," he says. "I'd rather just  know. that I know"

SEGMENT 2300:
Summary: "As soon as I feel like I don't really need anymore grammar explanation, then I want to just stop and then only do it later on if I have some specific questions with grammar," she says. "Then I would probably spend a little more time on grammar, but I would try to kind of not continue on with grammar forever"

SEGMENT 2301:
Summary: "I want to look up some explanation or whatever. I want to find out what's going on," he says. "I don't know what to do."

SEGMENT 2302:
Summary: "I started speaking at about 90 days. And I've only done one session. of speaking, but I am going to do two more this week and then I'll be done with this challenge," he says.

SEGMENT 2303:
Summary: "So that's what I did with my challenge and what were my results. So that was what we did with our challenge," he says. "I'm proud of what I achieved. I'm happy with my results"

SEGMENT 2304:
Summary: "I'm actually very satisfied with my comprehension. I think that I can understand easier Italian very well, but I really like the beat"

SEGMENT 2305:
Summary: "I can't just understand normal Italian people talking to each other fast. I can't understand that well. Obviously, I need much more practice with that"

SEGMENT 2306:
Summary: "I want to understand the person that's talking to me, that's my main goal at this level of learning language," she says. "I'm very satisfied with how my comprehension has improved throughout this challenge"

SEGMENT 2307:
Summary: "It's only been 90 days, right? It's not a lot. So, I think that that's pretty cool that I can understand a lot," he says.

SEGMENT 2308:
Summary: "I can often... understand a lot of these words that don't have a similar word in another language that I speak" "I'm happy with my comprehension but when it comes to speaking I'm not really comfortable having conversations"

SEGMENT 2309:
Summary: A gap refers to a big hole or space between two things, but this is normal. I think there should be a big gap at the beginning between your listening and your speaking. That's normal.

SEGMENT 2310:
Summary: I don't feel comfortable speaking. I'm missing a lot of words and I mix my languages. I say some things that are Spanish or Portuguese by accident. However, I can start to have conversations. I was able to have a conversation, almost completely in Italian.

SEGMENT 2311:
Summary: "I would wait more time before I start speaking because I don't feel comfortable yet speaking. I did it during our first session, but I want to feel more comfortable. I'm okay starting right now with Italian," he says.

SEGMENT 2312:
Summary: "You can understand the other person and you can say some things. from them because you can understand them," she says. "You can say things to them that they can't say to you," she adds.

SEGMENT 2313:
Summary: "I learned a lot of words. I can understand a lot. My comprehension is pretty good for only having learned for less than 100 days. So this method works, and I will recommend it to the English speakers that have been asking me how to learn Spanish"

SEGMENT 2314:
Summary: Obviously, you don't just stop. 

SEGMENT 2315:
Summary: After 100 days you have to continue on with this and get more practice do a lot more speaking so this is just talking about the first 100 days. And so I'm sure you'll like this topic. And remember that if you feel ready for my advanced podcast episodes, you can sign up for those by becoming a listening time family member.

SEGMENT 2316:
Summary: "I tried to do exactly two hours of learning every day and this artificial time limit is just too strict. It made it a little bit annoying for me," she said.

SEGMENT 2317:
Summary: "I definitely won't do it like this in the future with other languages. I'll have a goal of wanting to learn for two hours a day maybe, but I'm not going to time myself," she says.

SEGMENT 2318:
Summary: I won't force myself to complete the two hours even if I don't feel like it that day. I'm just going to have a goal by be flexible with it. That's going to make it easier to learn.

SEGMENT 2319:
Summary: Right? 

SEGMENT 2320:
Summary: Learn how you want to learn or the amount of time that you feel like you can learn. Don't be super strict and stress out about not competing with two hours exactly.

SEGMENT 2321:
Summary: Language learning is not the most important thing in our lives. We can be a little bit flexible here, right? And if we're not so strict, it will be more fun for us. And then maybe the biggest lesson that I took away from this is that motivation.

SEGMENT 2322:
Summary: "I lost motivation during this challenge. About halfway through the challenge, I was not really interested in learning Italian anymore" "I wasn't concentrating well during my practice. And so I was really disciplined" I learned Spanish with a really bad method, a really disorganized method, but my motivation was so strong that I learned it well. So, the method was good, but I didn't have the motivation to go along with the good method. We want to have discipline, but we really want to be motivated. Don't just ignore this part.

SEGMENT 2323:
Summary: I know some of you might be more focused on kind of the technical aspects of learning a language. I kind of am too. However, this motivation factor is huge. I saw this really clearly during this time.

SEGMENT 2324:
Summary: If you feel ready to practice with two people speaking instead of just one, check out our conversations podcast. We'll be back next week with a new episode.

SEGMENT 2325:
Summary: Please share this podcast with anyone else you know who's learning English. Please give it a five-star rating and writer review you can. The link is down below in the description.

SEGMENT 2326:
Summary: Make sure that you're motivated. I think I'm going to do a whole episode about motivation and discipline in the future because I really want to explore this topic a little bit more. So that's another lesson to take away.

SEGMENT 2327:
Summary: There will definitely be a big gap between your speaking and your listening when you start speaking but don't be worried about this. It's gonna happen but you'll get over it. Your speaking skills will improve a lot and that gap will become smaller.

SEGMENT 2328:
Summary: I hope that this was interesting for you. I hope you feel motivated to really continue on with your English or maybe learn another language. Like I mentioned in the last episode, if you want to learn. Spanish, you can use my wife's podcast.

SEGMENT 2329:
Summary: I'll probably leave the link down below again this episode because I just mentioned it. It's a good way to see what's going on in the world of sports.

SEGMENT 2330:
Summary: I hope that you continue on, you stay motivated and you have fun with it. Alright, let's talk about my Italian challenge. I was not at all interested in learning Italian. I didn't have this desire before this challenge.

SEGMENT 2331:
Summary: "There's nothing wrong with Italian. It's an amazing language and beautiful language. I love it, but... It just wasn't on my radar," he says.

SEGMENT 2332:
Summary: I wanted to do this challenge because many people come to me for advice on learning a language, specifically learning Spanish if they're an English speaker.

SEGMENT 2333:
Summary: "I wanted to kind of simulate what it would be like for...  to be a father. And I wanted to sort of simulate ... what it was like to be a dad," he says.

SEGMENT 2334:
Summary: Italian was a language that I had never. spoken before. I already speak Spanish and I already know a lot of Portuguese and French. So I wasn't able to do this with any of the other similar languages.

SEGMENT 2335:
Summary: New Year's is a very important celebration in England. It's a time when people come together to say goodbye to the old year. The old year finishes on 31st of December and the new year begins on 1st January.

SEGMENT 2336:
Summary: The main cities and towns across England light up with... kiss at midnight. The kiss is to mark the start of the New Year in the UK. It is also to celebrate the end of the year.

SEGMENT 2337:
Summary: People usually reflect on the past year and set resolutions for the next one. These resolutions are normally about your personal goals, so things that you would like to improve. So for example, you might want to start improving your fitness.

SEGMENT 2338:
Summary: Not everyone likes... 

SEGMENT 2339:
Summary: Some people say that if you haven't started a new habit already then it doesn't make sense to start doing it in January. For example if you said in November that you wanted to start going to the gym three times a week then it's the same as if you say that in November.

SEGMENT 2340:
Summary: The new year is a reminder to reflect on what you have achieved in the past year. I think that it doesn't harm anyone in setting goals and it could be a motivation for a lot of people.

SEGMENT 2341:
Summary: You think whether you like your dog, whether you think you are in good health, and whether you have healthy habits or a healthy lifestyle.

SEGMENT 2342:
Summary: New Year's Day is a bank holiday in England so people make the most of this day to start. with their new year's resolutions. People might go for a run to stay fit, they might have a healthy meal and they are generally a lot more motivated than usual.

SEGMENT 2343:
Summary: In recent years fireworks displays have been replaced with drone displays. These drones are special and they have light and they can change colour. They are being used as a replacement for fireworks because of the fact that they are better. Rmal fireworks. rmal fireworks are the most popular fireworks display in the world. They are used to celebrate the end of a year-long fireworks festival.

SEGMENT 2344:
Summary: I fight. 

SEGMENT 2345:
Summary: The shape of all of the famous buildings in London, and the fireworks in the sky and is beautiful. Other people go along the river Tens in London or to the concert that is held right in the air.

SEGMENT 2346:
Summary: It can get very busy. So, if you are someone who doesn't enjoy being in crowded spaces, this is not the place for you.

SEGMENT 2347:
Summary: The firework display starts at 12 o'clock, so when the clock strikes midnight on December 31st. usually tune in to watch this live on TV. Many people attend private parties which are hosted by friends and family, whereas others prefer to celebrate at pubs or clubs. pubs and bars are open until very late on this special occasion.

SEGMENT 2348:
Summary: Many people drink a lot of alcohol at these parties and gatherings. and sparkling wine are the most common drinks. But people also eat too. The main tradition is to have a special New Year's Eve dinner.

SEGMENT 2349:
Summary:  Elephant English Podcasts: New Year's resolutions. First I'm going to be asking my mum some questions about them. Then I'll be telling her some ideas for New Year’s resolutions that she can make.

SEGMENT 2350:
Summary: So 

SEGMENT 2351:
Summary: A lot of people have had free time over the Christmas holidays to reflect on their lifestyle and their life. They decide that the New Year is a good time to start again to reset their lifestyle. What are New Year's resolutions that people hydrated?

SEGMENT 2352:
Summary: I don't think that that should be a new year's resolution but maybe after you've spent time with your family at Christmas. on that new year, you realise that you really should keep in touch more. You could have a actual phone conversation with them or a video call.

SEGMENT 2353:
Summary: I think we could all do this one as a new year's resolution. The next one is reducing your screen time. It's quite scary the amount of time that we spend on social media. And the final New Year's resolution is organising or tidying something every month. I could do this. I think that you could declutter everything you have in that room. And even if there are five rooms in the house, you could probably do them twice a year. And this would benefit you a lot.

SEGMENT 2354:
Summary: I like the idea of trying something new every month. I also like reducing the screen time on my mobile phone. Have these ideas inspired you? Yes, they have.

SEGMENT 2355:
Summary: In today's video we have talked about New Year's resolutions. I think that they would be good ideas to follow even though you don't consider it a New year's resolution. If you have enjoyed this video please give it a thumbs up.

SEGMENT 2356:
Summary: normally make. 

SEGMENT 2357:
Summary: I think the most New Year's resolutions are about having a healthy diet or exercising more, not too much of a change but enough to make a difference in their life. Do you normally make New Year’s resolutions? No, I don’t normally make any New year's resolutions.

SEGMENT 2358:
Summary: Why not? Because I'm... 

SEGMENT 2359:
Summary: I think that people have time to reflect and talk with friends and family over Christmas. And I also think that if you want to make a change you can make it during your year, can't you? If you realise in August that you need to make change in your life you can start that change in August rather than waiting until January to make that change.

SEGMENT 2360:
Summary: "I think it's a good new year's resolution for some people because a lot of people stay up late watching Phil, watching Netflix and then the next morning when they get up to go to work they're tired," she says.

SEGMENT 2361:
Summary: So it could be a good idea to check. 

SEGMENT 2362:
Summary: I would like to go on some day courses or afternoon courses for cooking or crafts or pottery. I think that would be a good idea because then you can try out whether you like that activity for one day. The downside is that these courses can be quite expensive and a friend of mine has gone on a few courses and has been disappointed with them. I think it can be a good New Year's resolution for someone who's realized they've drunk a lot of alcohol over the holidays and they want to change this. But it's a good way to meet new people and to try new things.

SEGMENT 2363:
Summary: Drink more water. Yes I think this is a very good New Year's resolution. It's a good idea to keep. Okay the next one.

SEGMENT 2364:
Summary: Dr. Jones was a great scientist who spent all of his time creating robots. He always wanted to create a special robot, a robot that could think like a human being. After years of creating them, he finally built a robot which could talk with humans.

SEGMENT 2365:
Summary: We have some questions and I'd like you to answer them. Write the answers in the comment section so that I can correct you. We will post the answers at the bottom of the page.

SEGMENT 2366:
Summary: Dr. Jones felt like he was the best scientist in the world. The robot was very intelligent so it learnt to do things quickly. It was amazing and he felt very proud of it.

SEGMENT 2367:
Summary: make funny jokes, play games, etc. 

SEGMENT 2368:
Summary: Before it was friendly with humans but everything changed in a few weeks. It got angry when the scientists talked to it and started shouting. However, after afew weeks he saw that the robots started to change a lot.

SEGMENT 2369:
Summary: Dr. Jones watched the robot 24 hours a day and didn't sleep because he felt so scared. He didn't tell anyone about the robot because he thought that someone would copy his idea.

SEGMENT 2370:
Summary: Dr. Jones studied the robot all night but he felt sad and he missed the robot so he decided to find the problem. The real problem was that the robot was too intelligent. It could learn very quickly, it could think and it could get angry. Imagine 1,000 robots like this, he said. Last time I had gone to London was with my parents when I was 10 years old. Now I could travel on my own and do what I wanted to do. I had an excellent day there seeing all my favourite characters and film sets. If you like Harry Potter you should definitely go and visit i Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 is out now on Blu-ray and DVD. The film is based on the final book in the Harry Potter series, which was released last year.

SEGMENT 2371:
Summary: The options were a hotel or a hostel in either central London or in the suburbs. Central hotels and hostels were more expensive. but involved less transport costs. suburban accommodation was slightly cheaper but involved travelling a long distance.

SEGMENT 2372:
Summary: London's Stas said it is 42 miles from the centre of London. Could either walk or catch the bus or the underground into central London. So I decided to catch special train that runs every 30 minutes.

SEGMENT 2373:
Summary: The writer spent his first day in London exploring the city. He visited Harrod's department store, Buckingham Palace and Big Den. He also visited the Houses of Parliament and the Tower of London. I saw the sights of London, left to square, the shops in Oxford Street, St Paul's Cathedral, the Tower of London and Tower Bridge. In the evening I went to see the Lion King at the theatre. It was amazing and I recommend going to see it. "I would make sandcastles and play with the sand with a bucket and spade," she says. "I would play in a sandbox with a spade and a bucket"

SEGMENT 2374:
Summary: "I started. playing on the slides and the swings. When I got older I started playing with the swings and the slides," he said.

SEGMENT 2375:
Summary: On a nice summer day in England, parks are usually full of people. There are sometimes even concerts or fun activities to do at the park in the summer. These activities could be for children like bouncy castles and face painting, but there are also events for adults too like live music.

SEGMENT 2376:
Summary: Nowadays we usually take our dogs for a walk around the park. They love to run around and to chase the dogs. We look at the beautiful statues, fountains and trees.

SEGMENT 2377:
Summary: If it's sunny and it's warm, it's a fun activity to do at Hyde Park. You can go on one with your family or your friends. Normally cost about £10 or £15 for 30 minutes.

SEGMENT 2378:
Summary: See how fast you can row and to look at the ducks, the geese or even the swans close up. How often do you go to parts and what do you normally do there?

SEGMENT 2379:
Summary: Please leave a comment in the comment section. If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.

SEGMENT 2380:
Summary: My favourite thing to do at the park was to go on the merry-go-round. Sometimes we would take our bikes or scooters to the park to ride around it. We always wore our helmets just in case we fell off our bikes. We used to feed them oats because people say that bread is not healthy for them. The ducks and the geese used to live in a pond at the park. There were some big goldfish in the pond too.

SEGMENT 2381:
Summary: When I was older I learned to skateboard and roll a skate at the park. There was a skate park so I used to meet up with my friends to skate with them. We learned to do many tricks and we fell off quite a lot of tricks.

SEGMENT 2382:
Summary: In about three... months we all learned to roll a blade and that was great. We used to go on the climbing wall as well which was quite big. There was also a zip wire at the park but you have to pay for it. My mum's alarm clock went off at 8am. She rushed down the stairs to prepare her breakfast. She read the newspaper while the water for her tea boiled. She ate her breakfast and drank her cup of tea. After breakfast my mum decided that she should have a shower.

SEGMENT 2383:
Summary: My mum went to the supermarket to buy a present for her cousin. She chose a beautiful box of crystals, as she knew her cousin was very spiritual and that she loved gemstones and mystic things. In the afternoon, my mum cleaned the house and washed the clothes in the washing machine. She hung the clothes on the washing line and watched as they blew in the wind. She put the radio on and listened to her favorite program. The DJ played her favorite type of music and she sang along.

SEGMENT 2384:
Summary: Elephant English Podcast is back with a new episode. This week we're going to be describing some photographs and talking about them. This might help you for your speaking exam.

SEGMENT 2385:
Summary: It looks like they're with people that they know and not with strangers. We can also see a dog as well. That means that they brought their dog along to an informal event.

SEGMENT 2386:
Summary: I think it's autumn because the girl is wearing a scarf, a warm scarf and they are both wearing long trousers and jackets. What season do you think it is?

SEGMENT 2387:
Summary: What do you think? 

SEGMENT 2388:
Summary: It looks like it's autumn because the colour of the scarf is popular in autumn well and they're both wearing boots. definitely not the summer. Yes, it could be spring too, maybe the weather is cooler than summer but not cold like winter.

SEGMENT 2389:
Summary: What can you see in this photo? I can see your group. Right, now we're going to go to the next photo. What can't you see? Tell us in the comments.

SEGMENT 2390:
Summary: I don't think they're at work because you would have really sit on the table at work with you. Even the you can't see their faces, all of the people appear to be of similar age. The clothes that they're wearing are long sleeve t-shirts and jeans.

SEGMENT 2391:
Summary: On the table we can see a few objects. Some workplaces have informal days, for example a Friday, some workplaces have a dress down Friday when you can wear comfortable clothes. So that is something you definitely wouldn't do at work.

SEGMENT 2392:
Summary: In this video we're going to focus on good and bad manners. So these expressions are either very good to use to be polite or very bad. I'm going to go with the polite one first.  Button means to interrupt the conversation. We normally use it to talk about children or teenagers. Some people never let you finish a sentence and keep interrupting you. You can say that they've bought in all the time.

SEGMENT 2393:
Summary: You can also use this to ask permission to interrupt. Like if some people...  Like if they want to talk to you in a different way.

SEGMENT 2394:
Summary: It means can I just interrupt or I'm sorry to interrupt. It's quite informal so I wouldn't really use it at work or in other formal situations.

SEGMENT 2395:
Summary: The last one we have is 

SEGMENT 2396:
Summary: close to home or close to the bloke. 

SEGMENT 2397:
Summary: We use these expressions when we're talking about when someone makes a comment which offend somebody else. So if you make a joke about something that somebody is really... fond of like their friends, their family or their pets even and it's something too personal to joke about. It means that the joke went too far.

SEGMENT 2398:
Summary: The expression shall I serve food is a typical one used at the dinner table. It is used when the host of the party or of the dinner is busy or isn't there and someone offers to do the honours.

SEGMENT 2399:
Summary: You're asking for permission to do something and you're asking if it bothers the other person. Do you mind if I wait outside? The other person can reply no not at all. If somebody does something nice for you, you can say h. "I appreciate that or that means a lot to me. ow nice or how sweet. I appreciate that," she said. "I'm not going to lie to you. I'm very proud of that."

SEGMENT 2400:
Summary: If you don't want to accept what somebody is offering you and you want to reject it very nicely there are some expressions that you can use. For example, if it's your birthday and somebody has bought you a present and given you... you can say I appreciate that or how sweet. "I'm going to leave now.  but I'm  going to  leave now," he says. "I've got a lot of work to do"

SEGMENT 2401:
Summary: In 2023 it rained 170 days of the year and sometimes it rains all day and doesn't stop. In today's video we're going to talk about rain.

SEGMENT 2402:
Summary: I like rain if I don't have any plans. I can remember many times when I have been in that situation. If I had to go outside three times a day to take the dog for a walk. My cat just looks out the window. "It doesn't look like it's going to stop and you're going to have to walk back all that way in the ring. rain and suddenly it starts raining really hard"

SEGMENT 2403:
Summary: I remember the last summer it felt like it rained every single weekend. During the week the weather got better on a few days. I was thinking about all these poor people who are in England and... haven't gone abroad for summer. They are probably working all week, looking forward to the weekend.

SEGMENT 2404:
Summary: There are probably only maybe five days last summer that you could have sat outside and actually not feel cold. I often think about this when I see shops selling garden furniture. Does this happen in your country?

SEGMENT 2405:
Summary: I would like to know your opinion on this because...  I'm not sure what the answer is. I would like you to tell me what you think about this. Please email me at jennifer.smith@mailonline.co.uk.

SEGMENT 2406:
Summary: "I think that they are so lucky to have all of this good weather. People actually use their garden furniture unlike in England. Now we're going to be seeing some idioms which are related to rain"

SEGMENT 2407:
Summary: Rain on somebody's parade means. to prevent someone from enjoying an event or their plans. It's raining cats and dogs means to be raining heavily. To keep something for a rainy day means to keep it for the future.

SEGMENT 2408:
Summary: It means that it's raining a lot. Take a rain check means to postpone something to another time. When you don't expect it to rain and it does and it just ruins all of your plans.

SEGMENT 2409:
Summary: I felt so bad for all of the people who worked in sectors directly affected by the rain. I also think it's a pity when there is a big music festival or other types of outdoor events in the summer where people go just to have a good time.

SEGMENT 2410:
Summary: I say that 

SEGMENT 2411:
Summary: My favourite type of rain are showers which is just normal rain. I hate it when you go shopping and then it suddenly starts to rain and won't stop. I always try to avoid the rain and when I'm out in it I'm racing to the car.

SEGMENT 2412:
Summary: The next question. 

SEGMENT 2413:
Summary: What do you like about rain? Well I love the fact that rain can bring rainbows. is what part of rain that you like the most.

SEGMENT 2414:
Summary: I like to have a rainy day at home on a Sunday in the autumn or in the evening when I don't have any plans. I haven't seen many recently. I think I've only seen about two in the last year.

SEGMENT 2415:
Summary: The All-Ears English Podcast has 1.3 million followers on Apple Podcasts and Spotify globally. Lindsay McMahon is the co-host of all years English. Lindsay and her team have been featured in Podcast Magazine, Language Magazine and Forbes.

SEGMENT 2416:
Summary: When people make a mistake, they'll drop eye contact immediately. Never allow a mistake to sever a connection opportunity. We stay in the conversation. We don't back away. I want your listeners to 

SEGMENT 2417:
Summary: It's especially important at this level to begin to low intermediate level because if we start to get into a pattern where our mistakes start to rule us or start to dictate how we act around other people.

SEGMENT 2418:
Summary: Native speakers are non-native speakers. Native speakers are speakers of a language that is not native to the area. Nativespeakers are not speakers of the language they are speaking.

SEGMENT 2419:
Summary: "We're set on the wrong track. So I want your listeners to kind of make sure that connection is the ultimate goal is not being correct," he says. "The person that you're talking to wants that connection with you"

SEGMENT 2420:
Summary: Yes. 

SEGMENT 2421:
Summary: "For sure. For sure. So with that being said, what are the ways that that loss we can kind of be put into action of those steps?" he asks.

SEGMENT 2422:
Summary: There's too much of a laser focus on the mechanics of the language. Yes, we need grammar at the beginner to intermediate level, but we're missing culture. What students tend to do is that they don't learn culture in parallel with the mechanics.

SEGMENT 2423:
Summary: "We get to a point in arbitrary point where we feel like, okay, now we can learn culture," he says. "And now it's kind of too late. Okay? So what ends up happening is we get to that point and it's too late"

SEGMENT 2424:
Summary: You need to learn them in parallel. 

SEGMENT 2425:
Summary: "We built the course of all our English. many years ago, I took a road trip actually around the US, went to your home state of California, onto the wild west, Wyoming, Texas"

SEGMENT 2426:
Summary: "It all looks like we really believe that, again, it comes back to the human connection. These are things that are going to keep us motivated, but also We're not learning this early on," he says.

SEGMENT 2427:
Summary: "It's not about learning some kind of a formula. Right. We're not doing math problems here," he says. "We're just trying to have a good time"

SEGMENT 2428:
Summary: Learn a language is not like learning Matt it's not that same process. It's not the same goal. We are actually learning to use it to eventually do something more important than just saying the worst.

SEGMENT 2429:
Summary: Connor: I am excited to be here and I'm honored to be your first guest ever on your show. I'm not a typical podcast post, so this is kind of my first time posting something like this. There's absolutely no reason why at a lower level your losers can't have this conversation to you. There's no point at which you then have that permission to go and talk about interesting things we can start now. That's something that native speakers would talk about and let's each other. And me at level can also talk about yes, yes, yeah, yeah. It'll actually kind of help them improve.

SEGMENT 2430:
Summary: You got it. 

SEGMENT 2431:
Summary: At the beginner level to low intermediate your conversation is going to be different from what it would look like at the B2 to C1 level. And that's totally fine. That's how we fall back to connection, not perfection.

SEGMENT 2432:
Summary: CNN's John Sutter shares his top tips on how to get better at listening. Sutter: "Exposing yourself to a very small dose of interesting listening material on a daily or near daily basis"

SEGMENT 2433:
Summary: Find something you love, find a podcast or YouTube channel, 10 to 15 minutes a day, make it regular. We've had listeners of our show come back and say, oh, I found you, yo, in 20. 17 and I could understand 50 percent, but I thought it was fun So I stuck with it and now I understand 75 percent that is a huge win. "People that are listening, are going to say she sounds like what Conor owns.  and you're seeing that gradual improvement," he says.

SEGMENT 2434:
Summary: CNN.com's Jarrett Bellini talks with CNN.com Senior Digital Producer and CNN iReporters about the importance of listening. Bellini: "We're not conspiring together. But we didn't do that before this talk, that's her own advice. And that's what I always tell my listeners here"

SEGMENT 2435:
Summary: "I know it seems like a hard thing every day. Well, not really. If you think of the other things we do every single day, even just cry 10 minutes. And turning on your favorite podcast or whatever it is in English is not that hard to do every day"

SEGMENT 2436:
Summary: "It's, ooh, I wonder what Lindsay has to say on this episode. It's,  Ooh, what will Lindsay have to say?"

SEGMENT 2437:
Summary: I think it's important to find something that feels a bit like, edutainment. So, it's not education 100% because we don't want it to feel like we're back in school. We're not sitting in a classroom as you know as kids but we all it's also a little more than just pure energy where we're laughing.

SEGMENT 2438:
Summary: for us. Yeah, for sure. 

SEGMENT 2439:
Summary: The next tip is so we talked about the importance of, you know, regular, regular listening habit. And we have talked about involving yourself in cultural conversations.

SEGMENT 2440:
Summary: I would say, I would guess the majority of the people listening are probably at an upper beginner that might be the lowest end to lower intermediate level. Have access immediately. There's no permission slip where you say, okay, now you can go into interesting things with your English. There's a lot of things you can do you can even Get on the phone with customers service for whatever product, whatever you have to do, you can find a way to start speaking. But one key here that I want to make sure your listeners know is don't pretend to understand.

SEGMENT 2441:
Summary: Make sure you make sure you feel like you're in a safe space. You're speaking with someone where you can push back a bit and use the key phrases. Have some tools, push back, and put yourself into situations where you will feel comfortable asking for that repetition.

SEGMENT 2442:
Summary: "I like to think of myself as the listening guy," he says. "My listeners kind of think of me as a listening guy" "Of course, my...

SEGMENT 2443:
Summary: "You are never going to be a good speaker if you don't speak obviously," he says. "So I want to make that clear"

SEGMENT 2444:
Summary: "I'm a huge proponent of listening input, getting that engaging content, and that's kind of the skeleton, the base of your knowledge in the language," he says.

SEGMENT 2445:
Summary: right? 

SEGMENT 2446:
Summary: "You do have to get that practice in and it's gonna really motivate you to maybe do more than what you would have done," she says. "When you do actual speaking practice you get that connection"

SEGMENT 2447:
Summary: "I've done a lot of French listening practice and this year I'm actually going to stop just kind of listening kind of in the background or listening when I have some free time and just doing that," she says. "I've realized that I haven't really spoken. There's a problem with that because there's only so much I can... do" "Not just listening, it's speaking. Not just listening is speaking. I also think it's smart for your listeners at the low intermediate level to start speaking," she says.

SEGMENT 2448:
Summary: "I notice a lot of my friends who are native speakers of English, they learn Spanish in school, but they're afraid to speak it," she says. "They feel awkward, they feel embarrassed, and somewhere they develop that habit, and it probably came from not speaking much"

SEGMENT 2449:
Summary: We develop these kind of nervous habits this embarrassing this almost shame sometimes that people have like someone hear me say what I was listening we don't want to have that. So I think that the way to get around that is from a low level. CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Please submit your best shots of New York for next week. Visit CNN.com/Travel next Wednesday for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 2450:
Summary: People mostly in the lower intermediate. intermediate English learners reach a higher intermediate level, is that right? Right. So those are really kind of clear actionable things that people can do.

SEGMENT 2451:
Summary: Yeah, exactly. 

SEGMENT 2452:
Summary: English teacher says students of English can move from low intermediate to higher intermediate. "Up to that point where we can really start to start to connect and have real conversation," he says.

SEGMENT 2453:
Summary: "If you're at the lower intermediate level, dive in and actually enjoy that human connection that you can establish with other people in that language" "Use that to feed you. motivation, use that to keep you going and you'll reach that upper, upper, intermediate level"

SEGMENT 2454:
Summary: Would you agree with that? 

SEGMENT 2455:
Summary: A person at Gunner. 

SEGMENT 2456:
Summary: "As human beings, we have the right to connect with other human beings. That's it. I mean, that is our whole idea here. Next, is available to every human being on this planet," he said.

SEGMENT 2457:
Summary: Every episode comes back to how can we find those moments of human connection. We have a lot of vocabulary, idioms, expressions, grammar. The best place to... get started would just be by opening the search bar wherever your listeners are listening. All ears English is a weekly English language podcast. Follow us on Twitter @AllEarsEnglish and on Facebook at Facebook.com/AllEARSEnglish.

SEGMENT 2458:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 2459:
Summary: When I think about E2, I think of that level as the point when I can start to feel kind of comfortable in the language. I'm gonna have a level where people look at me and say, oh yeah, he's got a pretty good level of Spanish.

SEGMENT 2460:
Summary: The B2 level is when you can do pretty much anything. The question is are you starting to repeat words over and over? Is your vocabulary actually quite limited? Even though you can accomplish tasks, you're still missing a lot. S. s. Actionable steps that people can take to actually kind of help them get to that level. So if you could, could you share with us some tips, some things thatPeople can incorporate into their language learning?

SEGMENT 2461:
Summary: Yeah. 

SEGMENT 2462:
Summary: "I'm going to start Conor with the philosophy. So first I'm going  to start by talking about the philosophy," he says. "I'm not going to get into the politics of it. I'm just going to talk about it as a person."

SEGMENT 2463:
Summary: All ears English's philosophy is connection, not perfection. It's not just for upper intermediate or advanced speakers. It works for beginners. Because it's all about a mindset.

SEGMENT 2464:
Summary: I love to crochet and this past week I've been making a pair of socks for a young girl. I'm going on holiday soon to British seaside town. I don't often read I prefer to be creative.

SEGMENT 2465:
Summary: I like to put on an old favourite TV. I've got a small collection of DVDs and I tend to watch the same ones over and over again. I don't think I would ever do it again but it was great at the time it was fantastic.

SEGMENT 2466:
Summary: Tunisia was the furthest distance I've travelled and the culture was so different to European ways. I'm not sure I would go there again though, whereas France and Spain are more enjoyable for me.

SEGMENT 2467:
Summary: I think now I'm a morning person. When I was younger, I would definitely a night owl and stay out partying. But as I've got old...

SEGMENT 2468:
Summary: I'm now a morning person, I would easily get up at 6am most days. But it means that I do often have a nap in the afternoon. That's good, that's fine, nap is not a problem for me.

SEGMENT 2469:
Summary: I've traveled as much as I want to at the moment. There's nothing I really need. I suppose if there was one thing then I would like to go to Canada to see all the tall trees. But I wouldn't fancy the very long flight.

SEGMENT 2470:
Summary: Well, that's very easy. 

SEGMENT 2471:
Summary: I would love to have dinner with George Clooney. I just find him very attractive and I think that it would be really nice to be set up as a him.

SEGMENT 2472:
Summary: I like to do a bit of everything. from my normal day to day life. I like to go out for a long walk, the weather's fine. And I often bake cakes and watch television in the evenings.

SEGMENT 2473:
Summary: I'm not very adventurous with food. I normally would get some pushing chips or get the Chinese takeaway, but I'm not keen on trying new foods, really. I feel the FIs done a bit of everything over the weekend then I'm happy when I come back to work on Monday.

SEGMENT 2474:
Summary: I've always wanted to juggle. I've tried looking at online videos and watching how other people do it like when we go to activities or at the circus. I'm sure that I'll give it a try in the time though.

SEGMENT 2475:
Summary: I'd love to watch cricket on the television and recently there's been the IPL which is the Indian cricket tournament. How are you following any sports or sporting events at the moment?

SEGMENT 2476:
Summary: I love any music from 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s up to today. I don't like heavy rock and I'm not too keen on rap, but any other type of music I enjoy. My favourite music would be pop music from the early 80s. 1984 is a particular favourite year of mine for music.

SEGMENT 2477:
Summary: CNN.co.uk has been granted exclusive access to a new interview with the Duchess of Cambridge. Watch the full interview on Monday, September 17 at 9pm on CNN.

SEGMENT 2478:
Summary: I can't think of anything adventurous that I've done. I don't like roller coasters, IDon't like anything exciting really. What's the most adventurous thing that you've ever done?

SEGMENT 2479:
Summary: Many many years. 

SEGMENT 2480:
Summary: Elephant English Podcast is back with more would you rather questions. Would you rather own a dog or a cat? My mum says she'd rather have a dog because they're more loving.

SEGMENT 2481:
Summary: There was a big difference between dogs and cats, because cats are very independent where there's dogs relying on you more. I'd rather live in a house because there's easy access to a garden or a garden.

SEGMENT 2482:
Summary: I would prefer to have a takeaway because you can eat it in your comfort of your own home. You can have your own drinks at home and you can watch television while you're eating. I think it's nice to order a takeaway and have it  in your pajamas and you know that nobody's watching you.

SEGMENT 2483:
Summary: If you've had a bad experience you've wasted a lot of money in my opinion. you go to a restaurant and it's very very busy and so in the end it's not a nice experience. So in this video I've asked my mom some would you rather question me I'll be doing a part two and three of you.

SEGMENT 2484:
Summary: I've recently been living in a flat and I've noticed that I feel more cut off from the outside well. It's nice to have the opportunity to go outside, to sit outside or plant flowers.

SEGMENT 2485:
Summary: The next question is, would you rather have more money or more time? I think I would...  I think I'd... 

SEGMENT 2486:
Summary: Everybody needs more money to live and for holidays and to buy the things that you really want to have. prefer to have more money because you can always change your routines. I think that if the choice was of money for a healthy, long life, thank you you would choose the latter. At a concert you're interacting with the singer or group and the people around you. At the cinema you don't interact with other people so much. The cinema is more of a private occasion, whereas at a festival or a concert is very sociable.

SEGMENT 2487:
Summary: Would you rather travel to the past or the future? This is quite a general question, really. I really want to see my personal life in the future. I would like to go and visit the future in general. "There have been many films made with this idea and it never ends well" "I don't think it's a good idea. The next question is would you rather go out for dinner or?"

SEGMENT 2488:
Summary: Elephant English is a weekly podcast from the University of Oxford. This week, we look at the history of the English language. We'll also talk about some of the biggest issues of the day.

SEGMENT 2489:
Summary: In today's video we're going to be using the causative verb form. This is also known as have or get something done. I'll be asking my mum some questions using this form and she'll be answering them.

SEGMENT 2490:
Summary: The cheapest I've seen was electric and gas, you shouldn't do it yourself. Usually get my haircut about once every two months or maybe once every three months. I think about 15 pounds would be the maximum I think.

SEGMENT 2491:
Summary: The couple had a professional photo taken at their wedding. They say it's the only time they've had a photo taken professionally. Would you like to have your photo taken professional at the minute? No, they say.

SEGMENT 2492:
Summary: Not my house, no. But one time years ago we had a push chair that we kept in front porch which wasn't locked and there was a big storm one night and the next morning the push chair wasn't there. So obviously some  some  people have booked my house.

SEGMENT 2493:
Summary: I think it depends on what you want done. £8 for a trim and then I've seen other salons that advertise for more than £28 for a re-style. No, I haven't ever got a tattoo done.

SEGMENT 2494:
Summary: I'm very scared of needles for injections and... just any type of needles so it's not something I would consider. I would choose a small animal like a bee or a small bird and I think I would have it on my shoulder or my ankle.

SEGMENT 2495:
Summary: Have you ever had your phone stolen? Yes, I remember now I have. I've had too deep removed and I remember it well because as I said previously I'm very scared of needles and so I wasn't very brave in the procedure. I didn't faint but I was a bit embarrassing. I often have my eyes tested. "I find it quite a stressful situation," says the singer. "My vision is very bad so I find it very difficult to cope with"

SEGMENT 2496:
Summary:  Elephant English Podcast: Do you get your walls painted or do you paint them yourself? In our previous house we always painted our walls ourselves. both inside and outside the house. Why do you prefer to do it yourself? Because it's very easy to do and it's a lot cheaper. Anything that deals with electric or gas, you need to get a qualified person to come and do it. When I was younger I used to like watching film dirty dancing. What used to be your biggest dream when you were a child? I loved animals so much. I was never a zookeeper but it's still my dream now. 'I'm most... get of heights, I'm not keen on heights at all' 'Sometimes when I go to attractions or tour buildings, then I suddenly remember my fear'

SEGMENT 2497:
Summary: As a child, I used to play with teddy bears. and dolls, mainly. And I remember one Christmas I've got a Dolls Pram. I think we used to get a lot of chocolate and sometimes clothes which as a child I didn't used to like getting. Butlin's is a large holiday complex where you stay in a shallay and it has all your entertainment there. You can watch shows, films, go swimming and so all of your entertainment and fun is in one place for the whole week. Did you use to like going there? Yes I used to love going there because I had a lot of independence. I used to love having my rabbit and looking after it and playing with it. and we also had a family pet that was a dog called Topsy.

SEGMENT 2498:
Summary: My favorite restaurant is an Italian restaurant because I like pizzas. I usually order a large pizza with tomato, cheese, pineapple, ham and green peppers. There are so many different types of restaurants in my country.

SEGMENT 2499:
Summary: There is so much choice. 

SEGMENT 2500:
Summary: I've worked in different jobs in a restaurant. There are waiting on jobs where you speak to people and take orders. I've also worked in the kitchen preparing the food.

SEGMENT 2501:
Summary: I've had experience in all types of jobs in the restaurant. The easiest part of the job is washing up in the kitchen. The hardest part is actually waiting on tables when you are speaking with the public. What do they enjoy? What do they do? What are they up to? Share your photos and videos with CNN iReport. Visit CNN.com/Photos for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 2502:
Summary: I usually go to bed at around 11 o'clock. If there is a good film on TV then I might stay up a bit longer. I usually wake up at about half past six or quarter to seven in the morning. No, I don't ever tend to oversleep because I always... set an alarm in the morning and I think that I know that I have to get up at that time. I normally crash out when I have been for a run or had a very busy day. I was quite interested in finding out what the most frequent nightmares are or adults. The top ones are warning, being chat. death, feeling lost and feeling trapped. There are some other ones like missing an important event or waking up late. "I move about a lot because I think that I'm going to miss my flight," she says. "I don't want to move about too much," she adds.

SEGMENT 2503:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 2504:
Summary: To not sleep a wink means to not pour a sleep. sleep at all. A cat nap is a little sleep usually during the day and not at night so if you fall asleep for 15 minutes on the sofa that is a cat nap. Sleeping like a baby means sleeping very well.

SEGMENT 2505:
Summary: I'm a light sleeper. A light sleeper is someone who wakes up at the slightest noise. So if I'm asleep and I hear one of my neighbours for example, then I wake up and it's hard for me to get back to sleep again. Other people sleep like a log, which means that they sleep very well and very heavily. No, I have never suffered from insomnia, but I do know that a lot of people around me have this condition. It's very hard for them to fall asleep at night and when they do fall asleep then they wake up quite often during the night. Like I said before, I am a light sleeper but I don't consider that I actually have a problem sleeping.

SEGMENT 2506:
Summary: My pets keep me up at night the most because I have a cat and she mows the whole night when she gets bored. People have told me that it's because I only have one cat, but if I had two, then she wouldn't meow throughout the night. But I don't want to risk getting another cat because you can imagine what would happen if both of the cats started to meow or night.

SEGMENT 2507:
Summary: There aren't many days where the weather is too hot to sleep in England. When I go on holiday to places like Italy, tea shop nearby, I will get a little smoking noise. Then I notice the heat quite a lot.

SEGMENT 2508:
Summary: In today's video we're going to talk about spring. My favourite part about spring is that it usually means that the nice weather is coming back after having a cold and long winter. The temperature starts to get warmer, which means you can spend more time outside. After Christmas, which is a great excitement for many people, it seems that the months of January, February and March. ome more colourful, with the trees growing there leaves and plants in flower.

SEGMENT 2509:
Summary: is working. 

SEGMENT 2510:
Summary: In spring, there are a higher amount of daylight hours we have, becomes a lot more noticeable, so that lets people's spirits. Getting up while is light outside and coming back from work when it's not dark is definitely something that impacts people's daily routines.

SEGMENT 2511:
Summary: There aren't really any spring festivals in my area. Festivals, especially music ones, are normally held during the summer. Once the weather gets warmer I like to spend more time outside in the garden.

SEGMENT 2512:
Summary: In the past I have 

SEGMENT 2513:
Summary: The only ones that I have had success with are tomatoes and blackberries. I have tried growing fruits and vegetables in Megadon, but the only ones I have been able to grow are tomato and blackberry.

SEGMENT 2514:
Summary: Easter is normally in spring. This year in 2024 we're going to celebrate Easter 10 days after spring starts. Easter eggs are basically chocolate eggs and each brand like Kit Kat, Tweaks or Snickers sells their own version. I think it's because people don't really have anything to look forward to. The months of November and December are usually cold but you're looking forward to Christmas and the New Year. I normally go on a nice long walk at the weekends, visit my family, or meet up with friends.

SEGMENT 2515:
Summary: I always think of flowers and colours when I think of spring. I also think of allergies as a lot of people have hay fever in the season. My favourite season in England is summer because the weather is usually warm.

SEGMENT 2516:
Summary: Easter is normally in spring, so I go abroad for about a week. I choose more Mediterranean destinations like Italy, Greece, France or Spain.

SEGMENT 2517:
Summary: Many countries all over Europe also have holidays so the prices of hotels and flights are usually more expensive. That's why I have to plan Easter holiday in advance. If you book it out last minute it can be very pricey.

SEGMENT 2518:
Summary: In the winter I go to work in the dark and by the time I get back home it's already dark again. I believe that this affects a lot of people mentally because it feels like the only thing that you're doing every day.

SEGMENT 2519:
Summary: From Monday to Friday I have breakfast at 7 a.m. And on Saturdays and Sundays I have Breakfast at 10 o'clock. Sometimes I have cereals and milk. Other times I have jam on toast and if I have a lot of time like at the weekend I have avocado on toast with some orange juice. E. e Christmas or a birthday so I never make dinner for my family.    I don't want to be a burden on anyone.  I'm not a big fan of cooking.

SEGMENT 2520:
Summary: 11's is a small meal that people have at about 11 o'clock in the morning. It is basically the meal or snack that you have between breakfast and lunch. For example, if you had breakfast at 7 and lunch at 1 you might get hungry at 11. If you visit somebody's house in England they normally give you a cup of tea with some biscuits and some cakes. it's for events like your birthday or you go out with your mom on a special day or with your friend.

SEGMENT 2521:
Summary: In England, they usually offer a cup of tea or coffee for the people. that don't like tea. Some people don't have sugar and others have one or two teaspoons of sugar.

SEGMENT 2522:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 2523:
Summary: Thank you and I'll see you. 

SEGMENT 2524:
Summary: A full English breakfast has bacon, sausages, toast, fried mushrooms, fried tomatoes, baked beans, which are beans in tomato sauce. fried egg and black pudding. In England people usually have a sandwich with a packet of crisps or maybe a small salad.

SEGMENT 2525:
Summary: You know... 

SEGMENT 2526:
Summary: I have lunch at work or at school so it's something that you can eat very quickly. I normally have a sandwich and a piece of fruit like an apple or a banana. What time do you have dinner? I have dinner at about 6 o'clock. I have it after work.

SEGMENT 2527:
Summary: Dinner is the biggest meal of the day and people usually have a lasagna, a pasta dish, some meat and vegetables, fish and vegetables. It also depends if you are good at cooking or not. I'm definitely a beach person. I don't like mountains. I like to go to a beach which is flat.

SEGMENT 2528:
Summary: I like to sit on my towel and read a book or sometimes just watch people go there. The biggest danger on the beach is the water, the sea. You have to be careful with the waves and depth of water. I like to take some sort of protection from the sun so usually parasol and I like to wear a lot of suncream. Would you like to live in a house on the beach? Yes I would. That would be my perfect location. Imagine waking up in the morning and looking out at the window. see the sats and the sun. I think it might be very windy though and the seagulls might be quite noisy. I think it will be a good day for a walk on the beach.

SEGMENT 2529:
Summary: Dirty and polluted beaches are a big problem. It would just be so nice to see the sea out of my room. What can we do about dirty or polluted beaches?

SEGMENT 2530:
Summary: I particularly don't like to see... plastic, left on the beach. The worst thing is when people finish their cigarette and throw their cigarette. How do you think we can keep beaches clean? Well it's a situation where you have to educate the public.

SEGMENT 2531:
Summary: Elephant English Podcast is a weekly podcast from BBC Radio 4. This week we're going to be following some B2 or first certificate, speaking questions about the media. I sometimes listen to the radio for a story that I'm interested in. Reading the news in the newspaper is quite good because you can read one news story and then put it down and then maybe 20 minutes. you can come back and continue reading. On TV it's normally at a set time so you would have to turn the TV on at 3 o'clock or at 9 o' clock whenever the news are on. I think that in the future people will want everything quite instant. And I think that they will want to select what they want to see. I just like how it is like when...

SEGMENT 2532:
Summary: In today's video we have talked about the media following some speaking questions from exams. If you have enjoyed this video please give it a thumbs up.

SEGMENT 2533:
Summary: If I'm very tired, I don't listen to the radio. I find that in the morning they still play songs that are very loud and so if I’m very tired and I haven’t slept well.

SEGMENT 2534:
Summary: I like the music programs that they have on the radio, especially the ones that are on in the afternoon. I don't really fancy. listening to rock music. So it just depends on how I feel that morning and on the type of music that they are played.

SEGMENT 2535:
Summary: TV isn't that important to me. I watch Netflix more than cable TV, so this is why I would say that I could easily live without TV. Well, I could live without Netflix too, but I don't watch it every single day. I might watch something at the weekend. If my parents send me a message to say, turn on the TV because we're watching this program and it's really good. I don't like the same TV programs as my parents because they like a lot of the quiz shows, but I don't. I think that it's quite a long time to spend watching a program because they last about one hour. My parents are retired, so that is how they have so much time to watch them.

SEGMENT 2536:
Summary: The next question is, what's the difference between reading me and writing me? The answer is, it's a lot more complicated than you might think.

SEGMENT 2537:
Summary: On TV there are videos and there are photos in the report. Whereas in the newspaper there are only photos. In the newspaper you can flip through the pages to see photos.

SEGMENT 2538:
Summary: Try to learn English in a way that interests you. This makes the process of learning the language a lot more fun. If you think about studying English and you associated with a grammar book instead of your favourite series, you will probably think of English as an obligation.

SEGMENT 2539:
Summary: Make sure that you have a routine, but you also need to rest and to take a break some days. Reward yourself with something you enjoy. Everyone makes mistakes, especially when learning a new language.

SEGMENT 2540:
Summary: People get embarrassed when they make mistakes, but in reality it doesn't matter if you make little mistakes. The important thing is that the other person can understand you. Use textbooks, audio and video materials, language exchange apps and online courses.

SEGMENT 2541:
Summary: You don't need to only focus on one thing depending on the day or how you feel if you are too tired from work. You can use one resource. or another.

SEGMENT 2542:
Summary: My favourite apps for learning vocabulary are Quizlet and quizzes. On these apps, you can create your own flashcards and test yourself on them. It is an easy way to practice English while you are set on the sofa.

SEGMENT 2543:
Summary: Having specific goals will help you stay motivated and focused on learning English. Set achievable, realistic goals. Divide your goals weekly or monthly and try to achieve them on time.

SEGMENT 2544:
Summary: "You know what I'm talking about. So. these words that are considered to be vulgar, explicit. You know what he's talking about," she said.

SEGMENT 2545:
Summary: Many native speakers, many English speakers, do not like bad words. By the way, cuss can be used as a verb. So you might think that I'm telling you not to cuss in English. In the US there is a pretty large percentage of the population that finds it inappropriate to use that word. There are many people in the US that dislike these cuss words.

SEGMENT 2546:
Summary: You can't assume that everyone is going to find it funny when you use a cuss word in English. Okay?  Okay?

SEGMENT 2547:
Summary: When something is crass, that means it is not refined, it's not intelligent, it sounds dumb, so to say. And the people that don't find this funny andDon't find it appropriate, they often find things nice vulgar.

SEGMENT 2548:
Summary: So many native speakers might find cuss words to be vulgar, inappropriate, dirty, crass. So many nativeakers might find  cuss Words to be vulgar, inappropriate and dirty.

SEGMENT 2549:
Summary: I'm not someone who cusses a lot, I try not to. Don't take this the wrong way. A certain type of Cussing can definitely sound vulgar. It's maybe not what is very pleasant for me. I'm not saying that my v Many native speakers that like cussing and that won't be offended by you cusseding. These words, by themselves, don't mean anything. We are the ones that ascribe meaning. to these words. Online English teachers are taught how to use curse words to improve their students' English. They are also taught to be more aware of their own words and how they should be used.

SEGMENT 2550:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots from around the world.

SEGMENT 2551:
Summary: For me, for example, I speak Spanish and I speak pretty well and I can easily cuss in Spanish if I want it to. I have a much more powerful reaction to a cuss word in English than in Spanish because that cussword in English has so much more depth and meaning for me as a native speaker. It's not just a funny sounding word like in Spanish.

SEGMENT 2552:
Summary: If you say cuss word in English, it probably doesn't feel the same way in your native language. Does that make sense? I've gotten in trouble with this before.

SEGMENT 2553:
Summary: "I've used words that aren't necessarily terrible words, but I didn't know the impact of that word on the native speakers ears who I was talking to," he says. "They kind of looked at me like, wow, why did you say that?"

SEGMENT 2554:
Summary: "My level isn't sufficient enough where I perceive things the same way that a native speaker perceives them," he says. "In a large number of those cases, it actually sounds awkward or it sounds awful even sometimes" A large percentage of the time, it actually doesn't sound very good when a non-native speaker uses these curse words. "I might not like it if it sounds very vulgar, but I wouldn't say it sounds bad in the sense that I'm like removed from the conversation," she says. "I'm talking about when I'm having a conversation with a non-new speaker and they use a cuss word that just really surprises me and doesn't seem like it fits in place with their speech in that sentence"

SEGMENT 2555:
Summary: Non-native speakers often unaware of the magnitude, meaning how strong this word actually is. They don't really have that very detailed knowledge of how that word really feels. This episode will still be good practice for you listening. "It takes me out of the conversation.  the time and it takes me  out of  the conversation," he says. "I don't want to be in the middle of it all the time"

SEGMENT 2556:
Summary: The student doesn't realize. that that cuss word doesn't go well in that tone of the sentence. Sometimes they get it right and they use a cussword that has a very effective meaning and it actually works.

SEGMENT 2557:
Summary: In many cases, it's not this. And they misjudge the effect of that customer. They don't know how strong it is. And if it makes the rest of their sentence seem strange. Another reason why it can sound awkward when someone who is a non-native English speaker cusses. "Before you break the rules and do things that are very bizarre and strange, you first need to master the rules," says the author.

SEGMENT 2558:
Summary: Otherwise. 

SEGMENT 2559:
Summary: Game조K 

SEGMENT 2560:
Summary: It won't be effective. 

SEGMENT 2561:
Summary: If you Speak with many mistakes in your sentences and then you try to use a word or expression That sounds very very native and it's something that we wouldn't expect from someone who is learning the language. It can take us by surprise and sound a little bit funny. It will be strange to see your film and I think that's a good lesson to apply to Language learn. If you cuss with your English, I'm not saying that's wrong. I'm just trying to help you see it from the... perspective. hat make sense? Don't be offended by what I'm saying.

SEGMENT 2562:
Summary: Just because you're using cuss words and really hip slang, it doesn't necessarily mean that your English sounds better or current. If the rest of your sentence is unnatural or has errors, it kind of just sounds strange.

SEGMENT 2563:
Summary: "To focus a little be a bad idea for you. So we'll talk about that in just a minute," he says. "I would say to focus alittle be a good idea," he adds. "It's a good way to start the day"

SEGMENT 2564:
Summary: You can access my training for listening and pronunciation, my seminars, which I help you pronounce things better, listen better, by signing up for my membership. The different levels give you different content, different rewards. And if you want my advanced episodes, you can become a... more on speaking, more accurately.

SEGMENT 2565:
Summary: It's probably not a good idea to just take a bunch of different cuss words and try to insert them into your speech to sound or native. That doesn't work.

SEGMENT 2566:
Summary: If you hear a phrase that has a cuss word in it, you've heard that phrase many times, you can kind of get the effect of it. So just to summarize that point.

SEGMENT 2567:
Summary: You might use a word that is a lot stronger than what you think. It's probably safe to re-prope- do that phrase in that type of context. But you're probably going to run into problems if you just learn the different cuss words and try to put them into your sentences. I'm not saying this is right or wrong. I'm just talking about preferences here and trying to help. you so you don't run into these situations because I've had this before. definitely offend native speakers by using this word over and over again, if there's someone that finds it vulgar.

SEGMENT 2568:
Summary: "It's just so striking. We're not listening to a non-native speaker speak English," he says. "They throw in the F word like three times in three sentences and I can't even like focus on the rest of what they're saying"

SEGMENT 2569:
Summary: "I'm going to give you a warning. So that's kind of the warning I wanted to give.  I'm not going to let you down," he says.

SEGMENT 2570:
Summary: Many people will disagree with me about this, that's perfectly fine. And maybe I'm wrong. Maybe this idea isn't so correct. I don't know.

SEGMENT 2571:
Summary: "I'm just talking from my experience of what I've noticed. And I've heard other people talk about this too," he says. "I think it's good that you hear this one just so that you know that if you curse in English, you should keep these things in mind"

SEGMENT 2572:
Summary: "I'm not saying that you can't do it. Just keep these things in mind. They'll help you through this process," he says.

SEGMENT 2573:
Summary: If you want my help with your pronunciation and with your listening skills, then make sure to check out my membership. I have a lot of training in that membership that can help you improve your pronunciation, listening, and for listening time family members, you also get my advanced podcast. And of course, you have my US Conversations podcast available if you're interested. A list of key words and phrases. Use this list to help you understand the words you are using. Use these words to help people understand today's featured news stories.

SEGMENT 2574:
Summary: "It's great practice for you. So it's a lot of fun. It's a great way to start your career," he says. "It's a good way to get into the game"

SEGMENT 2575:
Summary: The Daily Discussion is a weekly podcast from CNN Opinion. This week, Jarrett Bellini takes you through a day in the life of the show. Follow Jarrett on Twitter @JarrettBellini.

SEGMENT 2576:
Summary: Curse words can have a different effect on people when they speak. So many people are interested in incorporating curse words into their English, learning English, so that they can sound more like native speakers.

SEGMENT 2577:
Summary: We all desire to be able to talk like a native speaker using their slang, knowing the curse words they know, being able to use that for humor, to be funny, to fit in. And I definitely understand this desire. But I do want to warn you that there can be some negatives to a 4% persuading curse words into your English as an English letter.

SEGMENT 2578:
Summary: "I want to give you this warning because it's at least something that's good for you to think about. And being perfectly honest, even as native English speaker, I try not to use explicit... 

SEGMENT 2579:
Summary:  Valentine's Day is not a national holiday in the UK, so schools, offices and government buildings are open. People usually give car. letters or gifts to the people that they love. Some couples go out on dates or take a romantic trip. Valentine's Day is so popular is because the shops want to sell a lot of products to make money. So they believe that it is a waste of money and that you should show your love every day.

SEGMENT 2580:
Summary: Rent, food and bills have gone up so much that people can't afford to go on special dates at a restaurant. This is probably because of the cost of living crisis. Instead of buying gifts and spending a lot of money, they are going to have a romantic date night with their partner.

SEGMENT 2581:
Summary: Having a takeaway is much cheaper because you don't have to buy drinks. Alcohol is quite expensive in England and a pint of beer costs around 590. A date night in can also make you feel special, but at a lower cost.

SEGMENT 2582:
Summary: If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel. Thank you very much and I'll see you in my next video.

SEGMENT 2583:
Summary: St Valentine was a Roman priest who lived during the third century. Emperor Claudius II thought that men without wives and children were better soldiers. Valentine thought that this was wrong so he continued to marry young couples.

SEGMENT 2584:
Summary: So... 

SEGMENT 2585:
Summary: who was killed. 

SEGMENT 2586:
Summary: We don't really know why it is celebrated on the 14th February. Some people say that Valentine might have died in the middle of February. Others believe that it is because of another Roman celebration called Lupa Carlia. In this tradition, members of the Lupuriki would go to a cave.

SEGMENT 2587:
Summary: At this cave the priests killed or sacrificed a goat and a dog so that the women would be more fertile the next year. The ladies put their names in a big pot. The young male Romans took a name from the pot and the man and the woman became a couple. These couples often married.

SEGMENT 2588:
Summary: Only 59% of people who are in relationships are going to celebrate Valentine's Day this year. Romantic dinners are the most popular way to celebrate the 14th February.

SEGMENT 2589:
Summary: Listen to episode 146 of the Listening Time Podcast. I hope you're all doing fantastic and I hope that your English learning is going well.

SEGMENT 2590:
Summary: I want to talk about why people are afraid to speak English. I think that this episode will be helpful for all of you, especially if you're just starting to speak or maybe you haven't spoken yet.

SEGMENT 2591:
Summary: You're still waiting. 

SEGMENT 2592:
Summary: "When people can't understand me well during our conversation, the conversation does not go well" "If they understand you well, then... that 30 minutes, one hour, is very useful for them"

SEGMENT 2593:
Summary: It's very unnatural. 

SEGMENT 2594:
Summary: "I have to repeat things many times or translate them," he says. "It's very hard to explain what's going on in my head. It's very difficult"

SEGMENT 2595:
Summary: And it's just not that. fun. 

SEGMENT 2596:
Summary: You should focus on understanding English pretty well. Not perfectly, of course, maybe not even to an advanced level, but you should be able to understand. pretty well, he says. So in his opinion, this is only my opinion.

SEGMENT 2597:
Summary: "I hope this will help you get started with your speaking. Okay? All right. And then that will really help you getting started with speaking," she said.

SEGMENT 2598:
Summary: Many people are afraid to speak because they think they will make mistakes. This is inevitable. When you start speaking English, it's inevitable that you're going to say... the wrong words many times. "Most mistakes aren't significant," says English teacher. "If you use the wrong form of a verb, for example, maybe you've used the wrong verb tense or you just didn't know. how to use the verb tense correctly" Don't be afraid to make mistakes. As long as these mistakes don't affect the native speakers understanding of what you're saying, then they're not significant. You can focus on the significant. mistak. "Focus on those big mistakes but to be honest the majority of your mistakes aren't big so don't worry" "You're gonna develop that memory of what to say and what sounds natural. es for sure" Just start having conversations if you can understand English pretty well and just know that you'll make mistakes. But the conversations themselves are the training that you need to eventually not make as many mistakes. Pretty simple.

SEGMENT 2599:
Summary: People are afraid that they have bad pronunciation or a big accent, a heavy accent. We all have pronunciation problems and we all have an accent. Again, we're all in the same boat here.

SEGMENT 2600:
Summary: "I have this problem big time in French. My accent isn't that bad in Spanish or Portuguese or maybe even Italian even though I just started learning but in French it's awful," he says. This is the first episode of a two-part series on how to speak in English. We'll talk about how to start speaking in English and what we can learn from each other.

SEGMENT 2601:
Summary: Don't think of accents as being awful, good, bad. Just think of the language and... the sounds as being a system that you will get better at over time. And just like I talked about before with saying the wrong words, the same things the wrong way in terms of your pronunciation or your accent, usually this isn't too significant either. Some of your mistakes are significant when it comes to your pronunciation or your accent. But most of them aren't. So you need to have a little more confidence and don't be afraid of making mistakes.

SEGMENT 2602:
Summary: You should focus on the significant mistakes that you do make, and especially if these mistakes can be easily corrected. For example, stressing the wrong syllable in a word. This can be very easily corrected, and it can make a big... 

SEGMENT 2603:
Summary: I remember hearing this employee at a Chinese restaurant asking this native speaker if he wanted any appetizers and she wasn't a native speaker this worker and she stressed the wrong syllable. She said appetizer and the way she said it was very hard to understand for the native speaker because he was expecting her to say appetizer. The words of a man who has been through hell and back are his last words. He tells the story of his life in his own words. Do you have a story to share? Share it with CNN iReport.

SEGMENT 2604:
Summary: Pronunciation is a skill that can be improved with practice. The link to sign up to become a listening time family member is down below in the episode description. All of us have issues with our accent when we speak foreign languages. We English speakers actually expect you to have an accent when this isn't your first language. It's not easy, but you can get better over time.

SEGMENT 2605:
Summary: Most of your pronunciation errors are not significant. And one other reason why people are afraid to speak English is because they feel that they get stuck by crazy. freeze and they can't say anything.

SEGMENT 2606:
Summary: You're still going to feel like you get stuck often when you first start speaking, even if you understand well. And this is similar to learning how to drive.

SEGMENT 2607:
Summary: "I'm teaching my wife how to drive right now. And this is a great comparison because for example my wife she read the whole handbook that talks about all the rules that you need to know when driving in California" "She knows the rules of the road. She knows all of that. But right now, because she just started driving actually behind the wheel as we say. She's the one driving," he said.

SEGMENT 2608:
Summary: Pundit: "It's a lot of fun, it's great practice for you. in which I have conversations with different English speakers from around the country" "You'll also just learn a lot about the country, about the US general"

SEGMENT 2609:
Summary: This article was originally published on patreon.com. We are happy to share the link with you. Please visit the patreon page for more information on how you can support us.

SEGMENT 2610:
Summary: On her first day, she felt like she didn't know what she was doing, even though she had already learned a lot of this. And that's exactly how it feels when you first start speaking. after you can already understand well.

SEGMENT 2611:
Summary: After a few sessions of speaking, you already start to feel more comfortable. works like that, just like learning how to drive. My wife, she gets all this passive knowledge first, and then she has to actually do it.

SEGMENT 2612:
Summary: "Just know that that's normal and that you're gonna develop this ability through consistent speaking. Of course, tons of listening as well, but also consistent speaking"

SEGMENT 2613:
Summary: If you want to practice with something a little... harder than this podcast, make sure to become a listening time family member to get my advanced episodes and you can also sign up for my US conversations podcast. Both of those links are in the episode description below this episode. In this episode I'm going to talk about the three main reasons my opinion. Why people are afraid to speak English. We'll talk about why people have that fear and I'll try to relieve your fears a little bit. Hopefully you won't feel as afraid after listening.

SEGMENT 2614:
Summary: Everyone has different philosophies when it comes to language learning. Everyone has different ideas about how to go about learning a new language. The best way to learn a language is to start with a language you know.

SEGMENT 2615:
Summary: "I'm not saying that... I'm right and everyone else is wrong. And I'm not said that ... I'm just saying that," he says.

SEGMENT 2616:
Summary: "I've talked to many people for thousands of hours. So I'm speaking from experience here. However, in my experience, having conversations with people from all over the world, students who are learning English from many different countries," he said.

SEGMENT 2617:
Summary: "I rushed through my morning routine because I didn't want to be late for work," she says. "I clocked in or punched in with my ID card so that my supervisors knew I had arrived"

SEGMENT 2618:
Summary: "When I walked into the office everyone was talking about the fact that Darren was no longer going to be the CEO of the company more time with his family"

SEGMENT 2619:
Summary: Sinking, which means to understand and process information, especially big news. When I heard the news, I took some time to let it sink in.

SEGMENT 2620:
Summary: Work on means spend time doing some. especially improving it. For example, if someone says you need to work on your pronunciation, it means you must focus on it.

SEGMENT 2621:
Summary: Handing it means to send something to your teacher or boss, someone in your course. I need to hand in the final report next week.

SEGMENT 2622:
Summary: Bring up which means to start to talk about something, to start a conversation about a topic. For example, he brought up the topic of getting married. But in the case of work, my boss brought up some concerns.

SEGMENT 2623:
Summary: "He knew that we were running out of time. Run out of which means to use up and not have any left. He knew that he was going to have to do something to get out of this situation"

SEGMENT 2624:
Summary: Take on means to undertake a choir or begin to do some work. For example, we had taken a... on two main tasks for only three workers.

SEGMENT 2625:
Summary: Figure out means to discover, to find a way. I figured out a way for our company to cut costs. There was an issue in my team, but we worked it out.

SEGMENT 2626:
Summary: Put off means to postpone, so to do something further in the future. For example, a meeting was put off until tomorrow. Put on means to be put off, so that it can be done later.

SEGMENT 2627:
Summary: "We are targeting the areas which we were first on. Therefore, not any failments, powered digital services were ready for equivalence," he said.

SEGMENT 2628:
Summary: I had been ill for a week, so I had to catch up on my tasks. I didn't go to work for one week. Call of means to cancel. The event was called of due to the big storm.

SEGMENT 2629:
Summary: Fill in needs to complete a form. I filled in the form with a blue pen. Finally, this page. Fill in your name.

SEGMENT 2630:
Summary: Burn out means to be so tired and overworked. I felt burnt out because I had been working overtime. Over time means more hours than you should. I would like to get ahead in my career before I have children.

SEGMENT 2631:
Summary: "Whereout means to be exhausted, very tired. I felt really worn out because I woke up early," she said. "I felt like I was in a really bad mood," she added.

SEGMENT 2632:
Summary: And fine. 

SEGMENT 2633:
Summary: "I knew that I had to work on a presentation, as I was going to have a meeting at 11 o'clock," he says. "It took me two hours to prepare"

SEGMENT 2634:
Summary: clock out or punch out is the opposite to clocking or punching which is to arrive and to show your ID card. So clock out means to leave. I clocked out at 4pm yesterday.

SEGMENT 2635:
Summary: After I did my presentation some of my colleagues brought up a few issues that they had been having with the deadlines. My boss agreed that our department had taken off. too much work. So he recommended we pass on some of the time-consuming tasks to another department. "I felt quite burnt out because... because it seemed like every day at work was the same, but I was sure that I wanted to get ahead in this company"

SEGMENT 2636:
Summary: Rush through. means to do something very quickly. Clocking or punching means to arrive at your workplace and use your ID card and the machine that you have.

SEGMENT 2637:
Summary: The CEO decided to step down to spend. Layoff means to fire. Step down, which means to leave a position or job to someone else.

SEGMENT 2638:
Summary: As a teacher I have around two months off in summer. I like to plan what I want to do each summer. If I don't plan it correctly, summer is over quickly. I usually stay in England for a few weeks to visit my family.

SEGMENT 2639:
Summary: When I come back from my holiday abroad, I usually stay at home for a few weeks to prepare for going back to work. I don't like it when I get back from a holiday and I have to start work the following day. During this time I usually catch up on episodes of series that I have missed while I was on holiday.

SEGMENT 2640:
Summary: call while it is still open. 

SEGMENT 2641:
Summary: On the last days of August I always prepare materials that I am going to use for teaching. I also like to declutter everything that I have on my phone and my laptop. I delete files, images and videos that I won't be using for you.

SEGMENT 2642:
Summary: September is like starting a new year for me, so... I like to start my year by doing all kinds. In today's video we've talked about what I normally do in my summer holidays. If you have enjoyed this video, please like it and subscribe to my channel.

SEGMENT 2643:
Summary: I go to the seaside to visit some members of my family as they live on the coast. Traditional seaside towns in the UK have a pier which is a long structure that is on the beach that you can walk on or sit on. These towns often have a lot of arcades where you can insert coins into machines and you can play games. I always travel to countries in Europe because the journey is shorter and it's much more comfortable. I enjoy visiting different areas of Spain and France as they both have great weather, tasty food and beautiful beaches. I tend to book an apartment that has a c. ng the beach. Ommunal swimming pool and is in walking distance to the beach. These are the main places where I will spend most of my time on holiday. On my most recent holidays I've tried...

SEGMENT 2644:
Summary: Summer is now here, so in this video we are going to talk about my favorite 10 things to do during the summer holidays. On the top of my list we have going on a beach holiday. The evenings are my favourite time of the day because everyone dresses up. N holiday to the beach. To go to the pool, go the beach and even try new water sports. Some of the best beaches in the world can be found in South Africa.

SEGMENT 2645:
Summary: In England the weather isn't very hot during the year so it's nice to go abroad. Spain, Italy, the south of France or Turkey are particularly popular destinations.

SEGMENT 2646:
Summary: "You can look at how much you have improved in those two months. You can look back and see how much of a difference you have made," he said.

SEGMENT 2647:
Summary: In fifth place we have having a barbecue. I enjoy inviting my friends and family over to my house to have a barbecue in the garden. We prepare delicious food. play games outdoor and enjoy time together. Summer holidays are a great time to learn about history and culture. I don't usually have enough time to go for a one hour run. So it's a great opportunity to stay.

SEGMENT 2648:
Summary: I like going to museums and cultural sites, especially when I am visiting a different city or a different country. I'm quite impatient when I'm on a road trip and I think that traveling by car is quite uncomfortable when you have been driving for 6 or 7 hours.

SEGMENT 2649:
Summary: Going on a road trip is a great way to explore new destinations. You can stop at interesting landmarks and visit many different places. I would love to have a van or motor home and then we wouldn't have that problem. You could just leave anywhere inside the van or the motor home.

SEGMENT 2650:
Summary: In night plays. 

SEGMENT 2651:
Summary: My favourite activity to do on a beach holiday isn't actually some bathing. I prefer to try out new water sports like dining. I love volunteering in my local community, especially for animal shelters.

SEGMENT 2652:
Summary: I love to go to a charity shop and buy some books that I'm going to read that summer. I usually choose romance books for the summer, not crying novels, because they are nice to read when you are.

SEGMENT 2653:
Summary: My second favourite activity to do in the summer holidays is going to the mountains. My third favourite activity is attending music festivals or outdoor concerts. Summer is a very popular season for music festivals because of the good weather. My fourth favourite activity to do during the holidays is to learn a new skill or a new hobby. Every year I set myself a goal, which could be learning a new language and your skill like painting or... crafting. It is a good way to not be bored during the summer.

SEGMENT 2654:
Summary: Elephant English Podcast. Today we are talking about where UK residents go on holiday. The main vocabulary that we are going to practice is about travels and tourism but also numbers.

SEGMENT 2655:
Summary: Summer is normally when people go abroad and have their longest holidays of the year. If you want to book a flight during high season, it is almost always going to be a lot more expensive. Ase comment telling me where you normally go when you travel abroad. Remember that I always create a worksheet for you to practice the important words of the video.

SEGMENT 2656:
Summary: There were only around 24 million visits abroad in 2020 because of the pandemic. This figure was down 74% if we compare it to those from 2019. Even though it seemed that nobody went abroad for a leisure that year, 60% of those visits were for holidays.

SEGMENT 2657:
Summary: Residents spent more than 62.3 billion pounds on visits abroad. That means that they spent £670 on average per person, which is around 775 euros. A couple would spend about £1,300 every time that they abroad.

SEGMENT 2658:
Summary: Spain was at the top of the list with 18 million visits. After Spain, France, Italy, the US and the Republic of Ireland are the top places that are visited by the UK. 46% of the total trips abroad are to these countries. It is very cheap to travel to another European country from the UK. There are sometimes flights that are on sale and you can travel to Spain for 4-9 euros.

SEGMENT 2659:
Summary: Elephant English Podcasts is a weekly podcast about sport. This week we talk to my dad about his favourite sport, football. What football team do you support? Restor City. Leicester City won the Premier League last season. The Foxes beat Manchester City, Liverpool, Manchester United, Chelsea, Tottenham, Oxford and more.

SEGMENT 2660:
Summary: I like to watch cricket and rugby union, but I do watch all kinds of sports such as tennis, athletics and sports, anything that is on the television. There are a lot of sports covered by the television channels in the UK. Almost every game in every type of sport is actually on television somewhere. Do you have to pay to get guy sports? Some people do. We had a free course dinner before the match and then we went to watch the football lesthe city versus Norwich city. Lesthe city was 3-0. So that was very memorable.

SEGMENT 2661:
Summary: It's not usually the case of support for the match. It's not always the case that support is shown for the team. It is usually the team that is shown the most support.

SEGMENT 2662:
Summary: This was in May of this year. And when was this? This was in April. This was  in May. It was in June. And it was in July.

SEGMENT 2663:
Summary: Do you think it was the best match you've ever been to? Share your memories in the comments below. Do you remember the first time you saw a cricket match? If so, tell us what it was.

SEGMENT 2664:
Summary: The next city was the Leacock. What year was that? That was in the year 1999. The next city to be the next was the Leacock in 1999.

SEGMENT 2665:
Summary: Football, rugby, and cricket are the most popular sports in England. What do you think the benefits are of playing a sport? I think it gets people together having a bit of competition. Have you ever practiced an extreme sport? Oh no, that's something I never want to try. Money enables me to buy things I want to buy and to live how I would like to live. Do you think that money can buy happiness? I don't think it can actually buy happiness.

SEGMENT 2666:
Summary: Do you think that richer people are happier than poorer people? No, not necessarily. I think that maybe poorer people know how much money they have and they live within their means. A lot of people can't save a lot of their money and so by saving a small amount. It helps towards an event like Christmas or birthday presents. Some families buy takeaway meals every weekend, which is fine, but... They could sav. If you buy a coffee out every day, then that's about two pounds a day, which adds up. This could easily be saved and put towards Christmas presents or birthday presents.

SEGMENT 2667:
Summary: I enjoy spending money on my hobbies, for example wool for knitting for materials for sewing. I also like buying books and if I saw a very nice blanket in a shop I would be tempted to buy it. And the final question is what... are things that you do enjoy Spending money.

SEGMENT 2668:
Summary: So you have a 

SEGMENT 2669:
Summary: "I look at that £2 or £250 and think that I could buy some craft materials with that money and so I wouldn't buy a coffee"

SEGMENT 2670:
Summary: CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a new gallery of snapshots.

SEGMENT 2671:
Summary: Do you think you would be happier if you had more money? No, I don't think so. pressures on them because of investments and because of the lifestyle they need and work pressures.

SEGMENT 2672:
Summary: I think it means that there is a limit to how much money is available and that you have to work for your money it just doesn't appear from nowhere. I think I'm quite happy as I am. At the moment, I have everything that I need and I'mquite happy with that.

SEGMENT 2673:
Summary: I think that parents use it to explain that you have to work for your money. If you say money doesn't grow on trees, it doesn't really mean much to children. better to explain to children that you only have a certain amount of money.

SEGMENT 2674:
Summary: Why I've never used the expression. Although other parents do use it. What about the expression?  I don't know why I haven't used it.

SEGMENT 2675:
Summary: Do you think I'm made of money? 

SEGMENT 2676:
Summary: "Do you think I'm made of money?" is a good question for children to ask. "I think that's quite a good expression. What does that mean?" "I don't know. If children are asking for the latest shoes or the latest video game and a parent would say, do you think  I'mmade of money? "

SEGMENT 2677:
Summary: It means that... 

SEGMENT 2678:
Summary: I think you can get away with saying it as a joke even though you really mean it. Do you think I have got a lot of money? And I think children understand that because it's in a joking way Yes, I think you said it to me once.

SEGMENT 2679:
Summary: Do you think children should have pocket money? Yes, I think it's a very good idea. It teaches children the value of money so that if they have got some money and then...

SEGMENT 2680:
Summary: English is my mother tongue. I'm a native speaker but I know how to speak Spanish and French too. I started to learn my first foreign language which is Spanish when I was young child because I used to live in Spain with my family. The most difficult part about learning Spanish was learning how to use the subjunctive. I enjoy learning new languages because it is really interesting to discover other cultures through their languages. It is also quite motivating because you can practice the language with other people.

SEGMENT 2681:
Summary: At the 

SEGMENT 2682:
Summary: "I think that they also appreciate your effort to learn their language," she says. "That way when you visit a certain country you can talk with the people who are from there in their own language"

SEGMENT 2683:
Summary: Number 4. 

SEGMENT 2684:
Summary: I don't like the official language exams that you sometimes have to do to a credit your level in a particular language. From my experience, it is quite stressful and sometimes you can't get to show off your language skills.

SEGMENT 2685:
Summary: Also, 

SEGMENT 2686:
Summary: Some of the themes of the listening exams are very difficult. There is not enough time to write down your answers while you listen. This happened to me in my Spanish exam. It was so difficult even though I had spent years and years talking Spanish.

SEGMENT 2687:
Summary: Question number five. 

SEGMENT 2688:
Summary: In England, high school students can only use and choose one foreign language which is normally either Spanish or French. There are other languages that can be studied like German but it just depends on what the school can in our country.

SEGMENT 2689:
Summary: Learn foreign languages to become more competitive and have more career options. It improves performance in other academic areas and enhances your employment opportunities. In my case, I learned my foreign languages out of necessity as I moved to Spain when I was young, not knowing their language.

SEGMENT 2690:
Summary: "I went to a Spanish school and the only language that was spoken in all of the lessons, except the English lessons, was Spanish," she says.

SEGMENT 2691:
Summary: Christmas is normally a big celebration in England. People get together with their families and the main celebration day is on the 25th December. The day before Christmas day which is the 24th of December is called Christmas Eve.

SEGMENT 2692:
Summary: I wouldn't like to receive clothes such as socks. or a jumper? Why not? Because often people don't know my style or the colours that I like and very often I don't need another jumper or a new pair of socks. I think it's wasted money.

SEGMENT 2693:
Summary: I think I would like to receive voucher too. by books or magazines, then I can use it any time during the year. Do you think that vouchers are a good present?

SEGMENT 2694:
Summary: I think at the moment when people haven't got a lot of money, that it's a good decision to buy something useful. Because some people say that they're not very personal, are they?

SEGMENT 2695:
Summary:  that they don't like and they wouldn't use it.  They wouldn't be able to use it if they didn't want to.

SEGMENT 2696:
Summary: It doesn't look good under the Christmas tree but it's a very sensible idea in these times. Do you think that Christmas is too commercial nowadays? Because for example, we went to a shop and...

SEGMENT 2697:
Summary: A lot of people feel pressure to celebrate Christmas in a certain way, but to buy a lot of presents for people. By advertising Christmas and having Christmas gifts in the shops at in August, the pressure builds. I think it's quite unrealistic, especially for the people who can't afford it.

SEGMENT 2698:
Summary: You see Christmas movies on television, with the enormous Christmas tree and all the family dressed in the same pajamas and mountains of presents. Yes, and you see Christmas films on television.

SEGMENT 2699:
Summary: And it's just not realistic. 

SEGMENT 2700:
Summary: Christmas Eve is not a big event, but there isn't a big dinner. Traditionally now, the big celebration is on Christmas Day. Children wake up very early, for example at 5 o'clock. We have breakfast and then open the presents which are under the Christmas tree. And those presents are from family and friends. Do you have a special dinner or a special lunch on Christmas Day? Yes.

SEGMENT 2701:
Summary: Christmas dinner is very important in most houses. Most families would have turkey with a lot of vegetables. Some people have peaks in blankets which are little sausages wrapped with bacon. I think it's nice to buy presents for some special people. But I...  I don't want to spend too much money on presents at Christmas.

SEGMENT 2702:
Summary: don't think it's important. 

SEGMENT 2703:
Summary: Christmas is my favourite time of year. I like to receive useful presents or things that I will use. In England people usually put their Christmas tree in the front window. I think it's a great idea because it brightens the neighborho You can pick this up when you are going for a walk in the winter. It is one of the best places in the city to take a break from the heat.

SEGMENT 2704:
Summary: with the people that they love. 

SEGMENT 2705:
Summary: The day after Christmas day is called Boxing Day and it's a day to ride down and to chill out on the sofa next to the fireplace and keep warm. Children usually spend time playing with the gifts that they received for Christmas or watching Christmas films.

SEGMENT 2706:
Summary: the jawline like that. 

SEGMENT 2707:
Summary: The Christmas lights are stayed switched on until the 12th night after Christmas, which is the 5th or the 6th of January. The people who have travelled far for Christmas usually go home on Boxing Day. Boxing Day is also known for its sales so you can get a lot of good offers.

SEGMENT 2708:
Summary: If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe. I'll see you in the next video. Back to Mail Online home. back to the page you came from.

SEGMENT 2709:
Summary: or when you're driving back from work. 

SEGMENT 2710:
Summary: In England and in many other countries there is a tradition of Secret Santa. People turn on Christmas music and sing along to the songs while they're decorating their houses or their gardens.

SEGMENT 2711:
Summary: People normally do this at work or among friends so that you don't have to buy a present for everyone. You have to write down. your name on a little piece of paper and we put it in a hat. Then each person picks a name out of the hat and that is a person who they have to buying a gift for.

SEGMENT 2712:
Summary: On Christmas Eve families set up the special table for the feast and wait for Santa Claus to come on the night of the 24th of December. They also set price. So you might have to buy a present for £10 or £20 so that some people don't spend more money than others. Christmas is a time for gratitude and reflection. People look back on the good moments that they have had with their friends and family. There are some people who enjoy the presents more than others. N. n went to a music festival recently but didn't bring his camera. He wanted to take a photo of his friends and family. But he didn't want to show off his new camera.

SEGMENT 2713:
Summary: The bracelet has a code on it and this means that you don't need print off your tickets or have your tickets on your phone. The last time that I went to a festival, which was about five years ago, I had to prove

SEGMENT 2714:
Summary: The new system of bracelets as tickets was also great for paying when you were in the festival. For example, if you wanted to buy a drink or some food or even a t-shirt at the merchandise store, you have... to pay with your bracelet. The bracelets reduce the cue at the start of the festival, and also during the festival as well. This means it doesn't take so long to buy food or drinks, as people don't have to get their card out of their purse. You could even recharge it before you went to the festival.     "I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to meet you. I'm so sorry I missed your birthday. I love you so much. Thank you for all the love and support I've received over the years.

SEGMENT 2715:
Summary: The performances were amazing and it was great because the crowd was very excited to be there. Contained artists of the same genre, they were all rock artists. So that was good because all of the festival gurus, who are the people that went to the festival, all liked rock music.

SEGMENT 2716:
Summary: atmosphere. 

SEGMENT 2717:
Summary: I first saw an artist who I had never heard of before, so it was great to get to know that singer. Of course, the artists that I went to the festival for was amazing. However, they weren't one of the headliners of the festival. Headliners are artists that are at the top of the list in a festival.

SEGMENT 2718:
Summary: Headliners usually perform for about one and a half hours, whereas the other artists only perform for one hour. It was shame that my favourite artist wasn't a headliner because they only performed for 15 minutes.

SEGMENT 2719:
Summary: There are currently around 3 billion active video gamers on the planet. Japan and the UK are the countries that have the highest percentage of players. These countries are followed by Sweden, South Korea and France.

SEGMENT 2720:
Summary: At present, the video game market is worth around $197 billion and is expected to grow around 12% annually. This industry is so important in the entertainment sector that it is bigger than Hollywood and the music industry combined.

SEGMENT 2721:
Summary: There are 1.7 billion male gamers and 1.3 billion female gamers. 80% of gamers are over 18 so only 20% of them are underage.

SEGMENT 2722:
Summary: The age group that most plays video games. are 18 to 34 year olds, which represent 38% of gamers. The people that play the least are over 65, followed by 55 to 64 year olds. Gaming actually produces a risk of dopamine as this activity is fun and entertaining. Half of gamers use these games to feel time when they are waiting or are on a break. These games are used as a way to distract their minds from stress and anxiety.

SEGMENT 2723:
Summary: While you are waiting at the doctors, the dentists or an airport. Check out our gallery of the best photos of people waiting to be seen.

SEGMENT 2724:
Summary: Video games offer an opportunity. escape from reality and give people a break from their real lives. Other motivations for many are to spend time alone, solve problems and to be comforted by something that is familiar.

SEGMENT 2725:
Summary: 63% of gamers in the US play casual games. This is followed by action games and shooting games which are played by just over a third of gamers.

SEGMENT 2726:
Summary: Minecraft is at the top of the list having sold 238 million. In second place we have Grand Theft Auto 5, which has sold over 175 million units. Tetris is in third place, having sold around  around  $100 million.

SEGMENT 2727:
Summary: This week's elephant English podcast is a conversation with my mom about music. My favourite artist at the moment is J. Cole, according to my mom.

SEGMENT 2728:
Summary: Cooper is a guitarist, a songwriter and he sings his own songs. He learned to play the recorder at school but didn't learn a new instrument until he was an adult. Why did he start playing the ukulele? I'm trying to learn. over and over again, using YouTube. In today's video we've talked about music. If you have liked this video please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.

SEGMENT 2729:
Summary: I actually think the ukulele is very good for children to learn because it's not heavy, it's portable and there are a lot of videos online shown. how to play simple tunes like jingle bells. I think that music appreciation should be taught to all children. I think that in general children should have an appreciation of music from different cultures too. And for those who would like to learn instrument, then they should be given that opportunity.

SEGMENT 2730:
Summary: When I was younger, we only learned how to play the recorder. It's something that you only play at school. You rarely see an adult playing a recorder in a band in a group. Because I'm...

SEGMENT 2731:
Summary: In the next part, I... 

SEGMENT 2732:
Summary: I've always enjoyed pop music, any music that is in the top 40 at the moment. My love of music started when I was about 9 years old. I'm very good at lyrics and remembering the year of a certain song because I've followed it so keenly over. I link a song to a... particular time in my life or an event. E. e radio and to my favourite songs.    E. eRadio and to our favourite songs and videos. E. E Radio and to your favourite songs, videos and photos.

SEGMENT 2733:
Summary: A lot of people listen to music on their phones and and by streaming songs. You can also listen to the radio wherever you are now because a lot of radio stations are online. I think it's good as well because you don't actually have to pay for you.

SEGMENT 2734:
Summary:  Elephant English Podcasts is a weekly podcast about what you do in the evenings. This week we're going to be following some speaking questions that you might have in your speaking exam. The first question is, what do you do to relax after work? Other evenings I usually relax by watching an episode of my favourite series or playing my cat. I have a routine that I normally follow every day. However, my evenings are different at the weekend. On Friday and Saturday evenings, I usually go out to do something different.

SEGMENT 2735:
Summary: Question number three is do you... 

SEGMENT 2736:
Summary: I only spend my evenings with friends at the weekend, but my family often comes to visit me in the evenings from Monday to Friday. I try to avoid marking activities and exams at home. but sometimes there is just not enough time.

SEGMENT 2737:
Summary: I think that a lot of young people in England like spending time at the gym or going for a run. They enjoy these activities because it makes them feel.

SEGMENT 2738:
Summary: refreshed after coming home from work. 

SEGMENT 2739:
Summary: It is motivating to see how you improve every time you go for a run or go to the gym. Also, it is quite motivating to hear how you improved every time.

SEGMENT 2740:
Summary: When I was a child, I used to spend my evenings doing my homework, playing and looking after my pets. I would play with my brother for a few hours. feed all of our pets and take our dogs for a walk. This would take more than an hour because we had so many ants.

SEGMENT 2741:
Summary: In today's video I've talked about what I do in the evenings. If you have enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel.

SEGMENT 2742:
Summary: Formula 1 is an international motorsport series that is quite popular nowadays. The championship has actually been held every year since 1950. The first race took place in 1950 in Silverstone in the United Kingdom.

SEGMENT 2743:
Summary: Formula 1 is not only about driving fastest, but it's also about strategy. Pit stops are an important part of their strategy. It is when the driver enters the pit lane so that the team can change the tires, refuel or make some adjustments to the car. If there is an incident or there are conditions that don't allow the race to continue as usual, there will be a safety car. The safety car is very important for the safety of the drivers and the workers on track. The drivers are interviewed after the race. They are awarded trophies and champagne. They usually spray the champagne on the other drivers. They also play the national anthem of the driver who came first and of the team.

SEGMENT 2744:
Summary: The fastest lap ever recorded. in a Formula 1 race was set in 2018 or 2018 with an average speed of 263 km per hour. This record was set by Raikon in Italy. Nowadays, the cars are highly advanced machines and can reach an averageSpeed of 370 km per Hour.

SEGMENT 2745:
Summary: In case you have never watched. 

SEGMENT 2746:
Summary: Formula 1 race. 

SEGMENT 2747:
Summary: This is how they work. 

SEGMENT 2748:
Summary: The races are always held at weekends. On Friday and Saturday, there are usually three practice sessions. These practice sessions are important because it helps them gather information about the car. And that can help them to prepare for the qualifying and... the race day. The most important race typically takes place on Sunday. e slowest drivers are eliminated after each round until they reach Q3 where only 10 drivers remain. The best driver who drives the fastest secure hole position.

SEGMENT 2749:
Summary: Elephant English Podcasts is a weekly podcast about English language and culture. This week we're talking about our hometown. We'll be reading out some questions and answering them like a speaking exam. I would say that the oldest place, the oldest building is the church which is in the center. There aren't many shops in my hometown but the ones that we have are next to the church. Even though there aren't a lot of shops, you can always find what you need and if you need anything... else you can go to a nearby city. When I take my bike to my hometown to go cycling sometimes I can't because the  traffic is so bad.  This is a problem all over England so when I take  bike to  hometown  I can's because of the traffic.

SEGMENT 2750:
Summary: us so bad. 

SEGMENT 2751:
Summary: The main things that have changed about my hometown are the people that live there. Nowadays there are a lot of younger people who have decided to leave the city. So it's quite nice to see that the village will have a future. Maybe one day I will go back there and live there as well. City where most people work.  City where most workers live.  city where most live in poverty. city where many people live in fear of their jobs.

SEGMENT 2752:
Summary: And the final question. 

SEGMENT 2753:
Summary: I think that it is a perfect place to bring up children. Almost all of the houses have big gardens and children can have trampolines, swings or even climbing frames in their garden. The internet connection is also good in the village.

SEGMENT 2754:
Summary: Elephant English is a weekly podcast from BBC Radio 4. This week, the presenter talks about his house and city. Do you live in a house or a flat? What is your flat like? .  can take with you, it is a lot more stressful and you have to plan. You have to be able to take care of yourself.

SEGMENT 2755:
Summary: I would like to live in a house actually, so there are a lot of things that I would change about my flat. The final question is what would you like to change about your flat? I'd like to have an extra bedroom so that I can have a gym.

SEGMENT 2756:
Summary: I have made some activities based on vocabulary. Use these words to help you understand the world around you. I hope you will use these activities to help with vocabulary.

SEGMENT 2757:
Summary: I spend most of my time in the living room because it's the biggest room of the house and I really like it. I have a sofa in there and and then I have my TV, some shelves for my books and a dining table with or chairs. so that I can use my computer in it. Normally when I'm in the live room I watch TV or I'm on my laptop for spending time with my cat.

SEGMENT 2758:
Summary: I would like to have a garden to have some flowers and to spend time outside. In a city it is very difficult to find a flat that hands a garden.

SEGMENT 2759:
Summary: Question number bike. 

SEGMENT 2760:
Summary: I think that it's good to be in the centre of the city because everything is close to your house. I think that if you enjoy spending time in nature and having a garden with flowers and have a house in the countryside, it is very relaxing and quiet. I think it would be nice to have a big kitchen but I don't think that it is necessary. I would prefer to be more of a minimalist in the kitchen because I think there are a lot of utensils and gadgets that you don't really use on a day to day basis. In the future I would love to live in the countryside rather than in city.

SEGMENT 2761:
Summary:  Elephant English is a weekly podcast from the University of Oxford. This week we're going to be talking about neighbours and my neighbourhood. We'll also be following some speaking questions that you might have in your speaking exam.

SEGMENT 2762:
Summary: "We have a conversation when we see each other in the hallways but we're not exactly friends" "We do help each other out when we need help" "I would say that generally a...

SEGMENT 2763:
Summary: "We didn't have water for about a week and it was quite good because all of the neighbours came together to find a solution to the problem" "If we didn't had a good relationship with our neighbours then maybe we wouldn't have felt comfortable enough to go and ask them to come together and cooperate"

SEGMENT 2764:
Summary: The most common complaint of people in your area is being inconsiderate. When you live in a flat especially you have to think about the other people. It's quite interesting really because in those types of situations. you do get to know your neighbour's better.

SEGMENT 2765:
Summary: So... 

SEGMENT 2766:
Summary: Being polite and friendly is a good way to have a good relationship with your neighbour. It's important to cooperate if there is a problem that affects all of you and not be that rude neighbour who refuses to help anybody else. In England people are usually respectful towards their neighbours. Some people get on better with their neighbours than others. People like to know what is going on in their neighbourhood. There aren't many houses at all because it's in a city, but the good thing is that there isn't a lot of traffic as it isn't on the main road, so it's a lot less noisy in that aspect. It's quite calm compared to other areas of the city.

SEGMENT 2767:
Summary: There are quite a few children parks around the neighbourhood, but there aren't a lot of open spaces or gardens. The fact that as we all live in flats, people don't really have gardens and it would be nice for children to have... bigger areas to go on their bikes or just play around. How could your neighborhood be improved? Share your ideas with CNN iReport. Share your photos of your favorite parks in the U.S. and send them to CNN.com.

SEGMENT 2768:
Summary: Well, like I just said... 

SEGMENT 2769:
Summary: I would create more open spaces for people to do exercise and just generally spend their free time. So it would be nice to have an area where you can go and have a picnic or go cycling or running after work or at the weekends. We haven't really got that type of area.

SEGMENT 2770:
Summary: I do think it is important to have a good relationship with your neighbours. You don't have to be friends with them, but it is always nice to be respectful. If they need any help they can come to you.

SEGMENT 2771:
Summary: In today's video we are going to talk about animals. I am going to follow some speaking exam questions and I'm going to answer them. The first question is, do you like animals? Yes, I love animals. The second question. is what is your favourite animal? My favourite animal is a whale.

SEGMENT 2772:
Summary: The wild animals that you most see in England are foxes and deer. But we also have squirrels, otters, badgers and... seals in the sea.

SEGMENT 2773:
Summary: The farm animals that you most see in England are cows and sheep. Although there are also quite a lot of horses, but people keep them as pets.

SEGMENT 2774:
Summary: If I were an animal I would like to be a sheep. They always look so calm and the only thing that they do is eat and sleep. Also in the winter they don't feel cold so it's a good animal to be. I think that wild animals would be quite aggressive to us, humans and they would say leave us alone. I think the dogs would be friendlier than cats. Cats would be complaining all of the time and shouting at you. Dogs would be more positive as they could speak.

SEGMENT 2775:
Summary: I hate cockroaches. I don't mind spiders because there are a lot of spiders. I think that they would say thank you more, cats would just tell you what to do.

SEGMENT 2776:
Summary: Elephant English Podcast is a weekly English speaking practice show. This week, we talk about family, friends and hobbies. We also talk about listening skills in English.

SEGMENT 2777:
Summary: I think it's important to spend time with my family because they are the youngest very special to me. We have a very good time when we are together and we share happy moments, but they also help me when I am sad or I have a problem. We normally play cards or board games like Monopoly or Cludo while we listen to music from the 80s.

SEGMENT 2778:
Summary: I meet my friends once. a week. I always meet them at the weekend because I never have time during the week. The best days to meet up are Saturdays and Sundays.

SEGMENT 2779:
Summary: I love cooking, painting and doing exercise, but I think that cooking is my favourite hobby. I have a lot of recipe books that I use. to make them and I sometimes follow YouTube videos when I want to make something that is extra special.

SEGMENT 2780:
Summary: My favourite sport is badminton. The problem is that there aren't anyBadminton lessons near my house. It is a shame because I really love it.

SEGMENT 2781:
Summary: Question number 8. 

SEGMENT 2782:
Summary: At the weekend I always like to relax because I work from Monday to Friday. Sometimes I go to the countryside to go for a long walk along the river or in the mountains. In the evenings at the weekend we usually order takeaway food like pizzas or burgers and we eat them while we are watching a series or a film. Normally I would choose a book that was a murder mystery or some kind of detective novel. Even for older people, it's good company and if you're on a train journey or bus journey, you can easily read your book. In your opinion, do people read as much nowadays as they did in the past? The next question is how do most people read books today in hard copy or on a tablet? I think it's about 50-50. Most people spend most of their time watching television.

SEGMENT 2783:
Summary: You can take Kindle anywhere you go or an evening. At one point there was a trace for having a kid and reading books online. But a lot of people prefer the actual feel of a book and knowing how many pages are left.

SEGMENT 2784:
Summary: Do you think the traditional books will be replaced by tablets in the future? Maybe in the past, maybe in the present. What do you think? Share your thoughts in the comments below.

SEGMENT 2785:
Summary: I went to a bookshop the other day and I noticed that there were a lot fewer books than there used to be in this shop. So I think the trend at the moment is for nonfiction books like cookery books or self-help books. rather than novels.

SEGMENT 2786:
Summary: People like to have recipe books that they can use in the kitchen. Whereas when you're cooking and your fingers of flour on them or your fingers are dirty, you can't really use your tablet all.

SEGMENT 2787:
Summary: When I was a child my parents were very busy working and so I led to myself. I think that's where I developed my love of reading when I was about 9 or 10.

SEGMENT 2788:
Summary: When I was about nine or ten I started with books that were by Inid Blighton. In my teenage years I progressed to the murder mystery novel that I'm doing now. The next question is would you give a book as a gift? How many if I knew the person very well and I knew what type of books they liked. You should say what the book was, what it was about, why you read it and explain what effect the book had on you. So a book that I read recently is The First Day Murder Club by Richard Osman. The book has been publicised a lot and that's why I bought it.

SEGMENT 2789:
Summary: The book was very entertaining, it was funny and kept you guessing who the murderer was. I was looking forward to buying the next instalment in the book because I think there was...

SEGMENT 2790:
Summary: I don't think there's so many people enjoy reading books these days. It's not the most gripping book that I've read. Other authors such as James Patterson are more experienced writing thrillers.

SEGMENT 2791:
Summary: I think 

SEGMENT 2792:
Summary:  Elephant English Podcast is a weekly podcast from Elephant English. This week we talk about the importance of reading books to children. We also talk about some of the challenges faced by children in reading books.

SEGMENT 2793:
Summary: Social media is a very common topic in B1 exams. Millions of people around the world use social media. It is used to communicate with other people and to create web content.

SEGMENT 2794:
Summary: There are two. 

SEGMENT 2795:
Summary: More than half of the world's population now uses social media. More than four billion people are active users. You can send messages, photos or videos to them and they can receive them instantly. How to cook a recipe. ort or even how to cook an entire meal. How to cook the perfect meal for your family or friends. or how to make the perfect dish for a family.

SEGMENT 2796:
Summary: From a business perspective, social media can be used from... and advertise your company. They are often used to promote people's websites and you can press on a link on their social media profile that takes you to the web page they are trying to advertise.

SEGMENT 2797:
Summary: Also, 

SEGMENT 2798:
Summary: Some forms of social media help people to form communities. If you have a hobby, you can join a Facebook group or a Reddit page. You can follow people who inspire you too, even if they live in a different country or continent. Elephant English is a weekly podcast hosted by David Walliams. This week, we look at some of the biggest issues facing the English language. Follow us on Twitter @ElephantEnglish.

SEGMENT 2799:
Summary: More than half of the world's population is now using social media. The fact that more than 4 billion people are active users on the same platforms has its downsides. It reduces face-to-face communication.

SEGMENT 2800:
Summary: "It is impossible for them to control it all. but it is impossible to control all of it," he said. "It is a very, very difficult thing to do"

SEGMENT 2801:
Summary: An increasing number of people can't stop consuming the content on these platforms. This makes people waste a lot of time, even if they're not actually addicted. Looking too much time on social media can cause health issues and sleep in it.

SEGMENT 2802:
Summary: People might stop meeting up in person like they would have done in the past and talk online instead. As you are only chatting with someone through a screen and there is no physical contact, people can become very lonely and can even become depressed. Because there is no face-to-face interaction, you can use social media anonymously, which means that nobody knows who you really are. Cyberbullying is a type of bullying that happens on social media. The fact that hackers can take and publish any information for everyone to see is one of the most important drawbacks of social media. If a hacker can access this information they can threaten the user, demanding them to pay them or to do a certain thing that they want them to do. The user will actively. feel threatened and trapped as they don't want to be exposed. People can share posts without permission and they can also create posts with false information, especially related to politics. That means that we don't know if it is real or if it are fake.

SEGMENT 2803:
Summary: I know that there are centers where they filter the content that is published online. I know there are also centers that filter what is posted on social media.

SEGMENT 2804:
Summary: Elephant English Podcast is back with a new episode. This week we're talking about technology. We're also going to be following some speaking exam questions. Apart from work I mostly use the internet for my podcasts because I upload them onto YouTube. I use it to look up recipes online, to watch videos and some blogs that I like to watch about life in the UK. And anything that pops up, so if I want to know a random piece of information, then I would look it up.

SEGMENT 2805:
Summary: Do you ever listen to the radio or is it now obsolete? I do listen to  the radio on my way to work in the morning and on our way back home.

SEGMENT 2806:
Summary: I think that... 

SEGMENT 2807:
Summary: It is good to listen to in the car because you don't have to start choosing what song you want to listening to. Because you're so tired, it's just easier to turn the radio on and listen to the songs that are on there.

SEGMENT 2808:
Summary: The final question is have you ever spent a lot of money on useless gadgets? No I haven't ever spent  money on  useless gadgets.

SEGMENT 2809:
Summary: My favourite piece of technology that I own is my iPad. Normally, I wouldn't really have an iPad because when you go and buy a table. I think that this has been one of the biggest changes in technology in my lifetime. When you see the price difference between an Apple product and say a Samsung product, then you decide to buy the cheaper one. It seems like a lot of money to pay 600 Euros or 600 pounds on an iPad.

SEGMENT 2810:
Summary: I use my iPad a lot more than I thought I would. I think the sound quality is really good and the screen is very clear. If you're going to watch a video on the sofa, then it's much more comfortable to use your iPad.

SEGMENT 2811:
Summary: I think the next biggest technological advance might be printers. I'm not fond of buying gadgets and I don't really enjoy the process. I enjoy playing a game on my phone while I'm waiting at the doctors for example. I don't have a gaming PC or anything like that. Do have a wee console that is quite old, but I think it's quite fun when your family or your friends come to visit and you play for half an hour. I don't enjoy playing computer games on my own in my bedroom, for example. I use the internet every day.

SEGMENT 2812:
Summary: Binge watching is the practice of watching multiple episodes of a television program in rapid succession, typically by means of DVDs or digital stream. In other words, binge watching is when you... watch a lot of episodes in a row on a platform like HBO or Netflix in one sitting without getting up to do anything else. On the one hand, binge watching series can help us in stress and escape reality for a few hours. We create bonds with the characters that we watch on TV they become all my friends of ours as we watch them so much. When you binge watch a show, it feels like you are wasting more time than if you watch the episode separately. One of the most important reasons that people like binge watching is because they want to finish the series before anybody tells them spoiler about what happens at the end.  streaming platforms like Netflix want you to consume as much as possible. cliff hangers, which can be defined as a dramatic and exciting ending to an episode of series, leave the audience in suspense. In my opinion, all things in moderation is the best principle to follow in this case.

SEGMENT 2813:
Summary: It is fine to binge watch a series on a rainy day when you're feeling ill. But I do think that you shouldn't take over your life. Do you think that binge watching is bad for you or not? And do you often binge watch the series?

SEGMENT 2814:
Summary: In today's video we are going to talk about transport. So please leave the comments below about what do you think about the topic. I have also created activities based on...

SEGMENT 2815:
Summary: So... 

SEGMENT 2816:
Summary: People always say that planes are the safest kind of transport. I get quite nervous and a little bit scared when the plane takes off. I think this is quite common. There are a lot of people who are scared of flying.

SEGMENT 2817:
Summary: It's difficult to use less petrol if you have to go to work. If you live in a city and you can use the underground or a train or a bus, then it's easier. There are more and more electric cars on the road as well. But they are very expensive. So the people that don't have enough money to buy an electric car can't reduce the amount of petrol that's... they use.

SEGMENT 2818:
Summary: "I live in the countryside and I have to drive to work, but electric cars are too expensive for me to buy. For example, in my case, I live in a countryside, but I have a job in a city," he says.

SEGMENT 2819:
Summary: I would love to go on holiday on a cruise because you can visit different countries and also you can do many fun things on the ship. I like to watch videos of cruise ships on YouTube because the new modern cruise ships are amazing. I don't know if you would have time to do all of the things that they offer.

SEGMENT 2820:
Summary: "It's cheaper than parking my car at the airport especially if I go on holiday for two weeks. It normally costs about 60 pounds," he says.

SEGMENT 2821:
Summary: I don't like to take a taxi because it's very expensive. If I can, I ask my family or my friends to take me to the airport. My favourite form of transport is a train.

SEGMENT 2822:
Summary: I think that cars are safer and I am scared of falling off the motorbike. Have you ever ridden a horse or a camel? I have ridden a camel when I was on holiday, not in England.

SEGMENT 2823:
Summary: What makes a car? 

SEGMENT 2824:
Summary: The most popular brands are Audi, BMW, Ford, Mini Mercedes Land Rover, but you also see Honda Tesla Jaguar Nissan. are popular in your country.

SEGMENT 2825:
Summary: Elephant English Podcast is back with a new episode. This week we're following some speaking exam questions about clothing and fashion. The questions can be used to help you practice for your speaking exam.

SEGMENT 2826:
Summary: I don't really buy shoes often because my favourite type of shoes are Doc Martins. They're military style boots and they're known for being. to work. When I have to buy a pair of shoes then I do but it's not something that I get excited about buying. The actress says that clothes reflect a little bit of our present. She says that some people wear more informal clothing whereas others wear more formal clothing and for jewelry and things like that.

SEGMENT 2827:
Summary: Nike and Adidas are the most popular brands in the world, according to a survey. "The most popular brand is Nike and Adidas at the moment," the survey found.

SEGMENT 2828:
Summary: "I think that especially with T.I.  I think that that's a good thing. At least for young people," she said. "I think it's a great thing for the country"

SEGMENT 2829:
Summary:  teenagers when they see that their friends are wearing a particular brand then they are going to copy their friends. It seems their fashions spread quite quickly because you can see what the influences are wearing. and suddenly everybody is wearing what they are. I think it's just a fun thing to do on a Friday evening or Saturday evening with friends. Especially when you're at that age because everybody seems to be doing the same thing. you see people from your school or from your class.

SEGMENT 2830:
Summary: I'm not really sure how fashion will change in the future. If you think about it, fashion repeats itself. What might happen is that we just continue reusing the same styles but with just small variations. Fashion is good for the planet because we don't have to buy new clothes every two years. Maybe fashion will become more timeless and that way we wouldn't need so many clothes. The next question is, do you prefer comfortable or good looking shoes? I wouldn't recommend buying shoes online if you have never bought a pair of shoes of that brand. If you have already had three pairs of the similar type of shoe then it's not a big deal to buy them online. You know what your shoe size is going to be. Also if you do have any problems then you can always send the shoes back.  t but I know that some of my friends have done and they haven't had any issues with it at all.  I'm not sure if I'll do it but I'll try my best.

SEGMENT 2831:
Summary: In the next part I have to describe a dress or shirt that I wore for a special occasion. I also have to mention what it is like when and where I bought it, what special occasion I wore it for.

SEGMENT 2832:
Summary: Well one 

SEGMENT 2833:
Summary: One of the nicest outfits that I have ever worn was a baby pink dress. I bought it at a small shop in my city. I didn't want to go to the wedding and see that somebody was wearing the exact same dress. When I was wearing that dress I felt quite pretty and speci "It's nice when you go to a wedding and you dress up and put makeup on because you're not wearing the same clothes that you do every day," she says.

SEGMENT 2834:
Summary: The Old Lady and the Geats is an original story from the Elephant English Podcast. The story is about an Old Lady who loved animals and went to the park every day.

SEGMENT 2835:
Summary: On this particular day, a Wednesday in June, it was sunny but not too hot. It was a great day to be in the sun.

SEGMENT 2836:
Summary: The old lady set off as normal. She was looking forward to seeing their wildlife in the park. When she arrived at the park she looked to see if anyone was sat on her favourite bench. It was a nice wooden bench next to the duck pond. The old lady was lucky because the bench was empty.

SEGMENT 2837:
Summary: The geese were swimming faster now and making a honking noise. Hark, hark, Hark. The geese are swimming faster.

SEGMENT 2838:
Summary: The old lady got up from the bench and walked away quickly from the water. Silly me, she said to herself. I ran away from Geese, Silly old woman.

SEGMENT 2839:
Summary: Hundreds of geese suddenly entered the water and started honking loudly at each other. A tremendous noise came from across the pond as the geese honked.

SEGMENT 2840:
Summary: The old lady was startled, but was determined to stay on the bench. The old lady, who had been sitting on a bench for years, was startled by the noise.

SEGMENT 2841:
Summary: The old lady fed the geese with a bread bat. She found it exciting and was disappointed when the bat was empty. The following day, the old lady got ready for the walk as usual, but she felt different, she felt confident. "Can I join you?' asked the other lady. "'Yes, come with me now and bring some bread. If you can spare it,' she replied. I go every day," she said.

SEGMENT 2842:
Summary: The two ladies walked to the park and sat on the bench. The geese crowded around them and both ladies laughed as the geese tried to get the most food. possible.

SEGMENT 2843:
Summary: Elephant English Podcast is a weekly podcast about English language and culture. This week the hosts answer some speaking questions that you might have in your speaking exam. Today the hosts talk about their childhood. I was very happy because it was something that I had asked for for Christmas. I kept that doll's pram for a lot of years until one day when I had grown up when I gave it to a little girl so she could enjoy playing with it.

SEGMENT 2844:
Summary: Question number three. 

SEGMENT 2845:
Summary: When I was younger I loved to play with Lego. We created an enormous Lego city that took up all of the space in one of our bedrooms. Whenever we got any money for our birthdays or at Christmas, we always used to spend it on Lego. A football stadium, a beach, a police station, a fire station, everything. ains and airport and three planes. a football stadium and a beach.

SEGMENT 2846:
Summary: I grew up in the countryside and I loved it. The lifestyle is more relaxed and children have more space to play. I think that people who live in the city are more aware of the dangers of children playing.

SEGMENT 2847:
Summary: In today's video I've talked...

